---
title: Extend Code Generated by the O-R Designer
description: Review how to extend code that's generated by Object Relational Designer (O/R Designer). Add code to an entity class. Add code to a DataContext.
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: how-to
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: data-tools
---

# Extend code generated by the O/R Designer

Code generated by the **O/R Designer** is regenerated when changes are made to the entity classes and other objects on the designer surface. Because of this code regeneration, any code that you add to the generated code is typically overwritten when the designer regenerates code. The **O/R Designer** provides the ability to generate partial class files in which you can add code that is not overwritten. One example of adding your own code to the code generated by the **O/R Designer** is adding data validation to LINQ to SQL (entity) classes. For more information, see [How to: Add validation to entity classes](../data-tools/how-to-add-validation-to-entity-classes.md).

[!INCLUDE[note_settings_general](../data-tools/includes/note_settings_general_md.md)]

## Add code to an entity class

### To create a partial class and add code to an entity class

1. Open or create a new LINQ to SQL Classes file (*`.dbml`* file) in the **O/R Designer**. (Double-click the *`.dbml`* file in **Solution Explorer** or **Database Explorer**.)

2. In the **O/R Designer**, right-click the class for which you want to add validation, and then select **View Code**.

     The Code Editor opens with a partial class for the selected entity class.

3. Add your code in the partial class declaration for the entity class.

## Add code to a DataContext

### To create a partial class and add code to a DataContext

1. Open or create a new LINQ to SQL Classes file (*`.dbml`* file) in the **O/R Designer**. (Double-click the *`.dbml`* file in **Solution Explorer** or **Database Explorer**.)

2. In the **O/R Designer**, right-click an empty area on the designer, and then select **View Code**.

     The Code Editor opens with a partial class for the DataContext.

3. Add your code in the partial class declaration for the DataContext.

## See also

- [LINQ to SQL tools in Visual Studio](../data-tools/linq-to-sql-tools-in-visual-studio2.md)
- [Walkthrough: Creating LINQ to SQL classes (O-R Designer)](how-to-create-linq-to-sql-classes-mapped-to-tables-and-views-o-r-designer.md)
- [LINQ to SQL](/dotnet/framework/data/adonet/sql/linq/index)
