---
title: "Advanced Build Settings Dialog Box (C#) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: "vs-ide-general"
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "cs.AdvancedBuildSettings"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Build options [C#], advanced"
ms.assetid: 141f2dee-1563-4ce6-ba37-32920b082519
caps.latest.revision: 17
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: jillfra
---
# Advanced Build Settings Dialog Box (C#)
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

Use the **AdvancedBuild Settings** dialog box of the **Project Designer** to specify the project's advanced build configuration properties. This dialog box applies to [!INCLUDE[csprcs](../../includes/csprcs-md.md)] projects only.

## General
 The following options enable you to set general advanced settings.

 **Language Version**
 Specifies the version of the language to use. The feature set is different in each version, so this option can be used to force the compiler to allow only a subset of the implemented features, or to enable only those features compatible with an existing standard. This setting has the following options:

- **ISO-1**

   Targets the ISO-1 standard features.

- **default**

   Targets the current version.

  For more information, see [/langversion (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3fb00b05-a0ff-4782-b313-13a4c0f62d94).

  **Internal Compiler Error Reporting**
  Specifies whether to report compiler errors to Microsoft. If set to **prompt** (the default), you will receive a prompt if an internal compiler error occurs, giving you the option of sending an error report electronically to Microsoft. If set to **send**, an error report will be sent automatically. If set to **queue**, error reports will be queued. If set to **none**, the error will be reported only in the compiler's text output. For more information, see [/errorreport (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/bd0e7493-b79d-4369-9c3f-ba26ebdfbedf).

  **Check for arithmetic overflow/underflow**
  Specifies whether an integer arithmetic statement that is not in the scope of the [checked](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/718a1194-988d-48a3-b089-d6ee8bd1608d) or [unchecked](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/0c021f7c-923f-4b3d-a58f-55336f5ac27e) keywords and that results in a value outside the range of the data type will cause a run-time exception.For more information, see [/checked (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fb7475d3-e6a6-4e6d-b86c-69e7a74c854b).

  **Do not reference mscorlib.dll**
  Specifies whether mscorlib.dll will be imported into your program, defining the entire <xref:System> namespace. Check this box if you want to define or create your own <xref:System> namespace and objects. For more information, see [/nostdlib (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ec197989-fa49-4725-a455-e06b551eb65f).

## Output
 The following options enable you to specify advanced output options.

 **Debug Info**
 Specifies the type of debugging information generated by the compiler. For information on how to configure the debug performance of an application, see [Making an Image Easier to Debug](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7d90ea7a-150f-4f97-98a7-f9c26541b9a3). This setting has the following options:

- **none**

   Specifies that no debugging information will be generated

- **full**

   Enables attaching a debugger to the running program.

- **pdbonly**

   Allows source code debugging when the program is started in the debugger but will only display assembler when the running program is attached to the debugger.

  For more information, see [/debug (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e2b48c07-01bc-45cc-a52c-92e9085eb969).

  **File Alignment**
  Specifies the size of sections in the output file. Valid values are **512**, **1024**, **2048**, **4096**, and **8192**. These values are measured in bytes. Each section will be aligned on a boundary that is a multiple of this value, affecting the size of the output file. For more information, see [/filealign (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/15cf1c98-3798-4ced-9f08-60619308a073).

  **DLL Base Address**
  Specifies the preferred base address at which to load a DLL. The default base address for a DLL is set by the [!INCLUDE[dnprdnshort](../../includes/dnprdnshort-md.md)] common language runtime. For more information, see [/baseaddress (C# Compiler Options)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ce13c965-dfe4-4433-94f5-63b476e3a608).

## See Also
 [C# Compiler Options](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d3403556-1816-4546-a782-e8223a772e44)
 [Build Page, Project Designer (C#)](../../ide/reference/build-page-project-designer-csharp.md)
