---
title: "Browser test mix for load testing in Visual Studio"
ms.date: 10/19/2016
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "load tests, web browser types"
  - "load tests, scenarios"
  - "load tests, adding browsers"
  - "load tests, removing browsers"
ms.assetid: 47f981d9-3038-45cc-a486-82b9daf9a9a1
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
manager: douge
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev15
ms.technology: vs-ide-test
---
# Edit the Test Mix to Specify Which Web Browsers Types in a Load Test Scenario

The *browser mix* gives you a way to simulate load more realistically in a load test scenario. Load is generated by using a heterogeneous mix of Web browsers instead of one single Web browser. You create a closer approximation of the Web browsers that will be used with your applications.

 A browser mix specifies the probability of a virtual user running a particular Web browser type in a load test scenario. When you create a load test, you might want to simulate that the load is generated through more than one Web browser. When you add a Web browser type to the mix from the set of Web browsers that are provided, a set of associated headers for the selected Web browser is added to each HTTP request that is submitted by a Web performance test.

 The browser mix works like other mix options. A Web browser type is randomly associated with a virtual user, based on the browser mix. The tests of that user are run on a particular Web browser, based on the probability that you specified in the mix.

 After you have specified a browser mix, you can later add and remove Web browser types to the mix. You can also change the distribution of the browser mix by using the mix control. The mix control lets you easily adjust the distribution of browsers in a scenario.

## Adding New Browsers to a Scenario

### To add new browsers to a scenario

1.  While in the process of specifying the browser mix for a scenario choose **Add**.

     A new browser entry is added to the grid.

    > [!NOTE]
    > To display the **Edit Browser Mix** dialog box, right-click an existing scenario and then choose **Edit Browser Mix**.

2.  In the **Browser Type** column, choose the arrow for the new entry and choose the desired browser type.

3.  (Optional) Adjust the mix control to specify the test distribution.

4.  When you are finished adding browsers, choose **OK**.

##  <a name="EditingTestMixSpecifyBrowserRemovingBrowserTypes"></a> Removing Browsers from a Scenario

### To remove browsers from a scenario

1.  Open a load test.

2.  Right-click the scenario from which you want to remove a browser and then choose **Edit Browser Mix**.

     The **Edit Browser Mix** dialog box is displayed.

3.  Select the browser in the grid and then choose **Remove**.

4.  (Optional) Adjust the mix control to specify the test distribution.

5.  When you are finished removing browsers, choose **OK**.

## About the Mix Control

 The mix control allows you to adjust the percentage of load that is distributed among tests, browser types, or network types in a load test scenario. You adjust the percentage values by moving sliders. Adjusting the mix for the browser types specifies the probability of a virtual user running a specific browser type in a load test scenario.

 When you move a slider, the percentage values of all available items change. If you have more than two items, the amount you add or remove is distributed evenly among the other items. It is possible to override this behavior. If you select the check box in the lock column for a particular item, you lock the specified percentage value for that item. Then, when you move a slider, the amount you add or remove is only applied to any remaining unlocked items.

 The **Distribute** button is used to allocate the percentage values equally among all items. For example, if you have three items, choosing **Distribute** sets the percentage values to 34, 33, and 33.

> [!WARNING]
> The **Distribute** button overrides any items that are locked.

 It is also possible to type the percentage values directly into the **%** column instead of using the sliders. If you enter a percentage value directly, the other items will not adjust automatically.

> [!NOTE]
> The sliders are disabled when the total does not add up to 100%, or when the percentage values entered into the **%** column are decimals.

 When you enter percentage values manually, you should make sure that the sum of all items is 100%. When you save a mix, if the sum is not 100%, you will be prompted to accept the percentage values as they are, or to go back and adjust them. If you choose to accept them as they are, they will be prorated to 100%.  For example, if you have two items and you manually set them to 80% and 40%, the first item will be set to 66.67% (80 divided by 120) and the second item will be set to 33.33% (40 divided by 120).

## See also

- [Editing Load Test Scenarios](../test/edit-load-test-scenarios.md)