---
title: How VSPackages Add User Interface Elements
description: Learn how VSPackages add user interface (UI) elements, such as menus, toolbars, and tool windows, to Visual Studio.
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
- user interfaces, adding elements
- UI element design [Visual Studio SDK], VSPackages
- VSPackages, contributing UI elements
author: tinaschrepfer
ms.author: tinali
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: extensibility-integration
---
# How VSPackages add user interface elements

A VSPackage can add user interface (UI) elements, for example, menus, toolbars, and tool windows, to Visual Studio by means of the *.vsct* file.

You can find design guidelines for UI elements at [Visual Studio user experience guidelines](../../extensibility/ux-guidelines/visual-studio-user-experience-guidelines.md).

## The Visual Studio command table architecture
As noted, the command table architecture supports the foregoing architectural principles. The tenets behind the abstractions, data structures, and tools of the command table architecture are as follows:

- There are three basic kinds of items: menus, commands, and groups. Menus can be exposed in the UI as menus, submenus, toolbars, or tool windows. Commands are procedures that the user can execute in the IDE, and they can be exposed as menu items, buttons, list boxes, or other controls. Groups are containers for both menus and commands.

- Each item is specified by a definition that describes the item, its priority relative to other items, and the flags that modify its behavior.

- Each item has a placement that describes the parent of the item. An item can have multiple parents, so that it can appear in multiple locations in the UI.

Every command must have a group as its parent, even if it is the only child in that group. Every standard menu must also have a parent group. Toolbars and tool windows act as their own parents. A group can have as its parent the main Visual Studio menu bar, or any menu, toolbar, or tool window.

### How items are defined
A *.vsct* file is formatted in XML. It defines the UI elements for a package and determines where those elements appear in the IDE. Every menu, group, or command in the package is first assigned a GUID and ID in the `Symbols` section. Throughout the rest of the *.vsct* file, each menu, command, and group is identified by its GUID and ID combination. The following example shows a typical `Symbols` section as generated by the Visual Studio package template when a **Menu Command** is selected in the template.

```xml
<Symbols>
  <!-- This is the package guid. -->
  <GuidSymbol name="guidMenuTextPkg" value="{b1253bc6-d266-402b-89e7-5e3d3b22c746}" />

  <!-- This is the guid used to group the menu commands together -->
  <GuidSymbol name="guidMenuTextCmdSet" value="{a633d4e4-6c65-4436-a138-1abeba7c9a69}">
    <IDSymbol name="MyMenuGroup" value="0x1020" />
    <IDSymbol name="cmdidMyCommand" value="0x0100" />
  </GuidSymbol>

  <GuidSymbol name="guidImages" value="{53323d9a-972d-4671-bb5b-9e418480922f}">
    <IDSymbol name="bmpPic1" value="1" />
    <IDSymbol name="bmpPic2" value="2" />
    <IDSymbol name="bmpPicSearch" value="3" />
    <IDSymbol name="bmpPicX" value="4" />
    <IDSymbol name="bmpPicArrows" value="5" />
  </GuidSymbol>
</Symbols>
```

The top-level element of the `Symbols` section is the [GuidSymbol element](../../extensibility/guidsymbol-element.md). `GuidSymbol` elements map names to GUIDs that are used by the IDE to identify packages and their component parts.

> [!NOTE]
> GUIDs are generated automatically by the Visual Studio package template. You can also create a unique GUID by clicking **Create GUID** on the **Tools** menu.

The first `GuidSymbol` element, `guid<PackageName>Pkg`, is the GUID of the package itself. This is the GUID that is used by Visual Studio to load the package. Typically, it does not have child elements.

By convention, menus and commands are grouped under a second `GuidSymbol` element, `guid<PackageName>CmdSet`, and bitmaps are under a third `GuidSymbol` element, `guidImages`. You do not have to follow this convention, but each menu, group, command, and bitmap must be a child of a `GuidSymbol` element.

In the second `GuidSymbol` element, which represents the package command set, are several `IDSymbol` elements. Each [IDSymbol element](../../extensibility/idsymbol-element.md) maps a name to a numeric value, and may represent a menu, group, or command that is part of the command set. The `IDSymbol` elements in the third `GuidSymbol` element represent bitmaps that may be used as icons for commands. Because GUID/ID pairs must be unique in an application, no two children of the same `GuidSymbol` element may have the same value.

### Menus, groups, and commands
When a menu, group, or command has a GUID and ID, it can be added to the IDE. Every UI element must have the following things:

- A `guid` attribute that matches the name of the `GuidSymbol` element that the UI element is defined under.

- An `id` attribute that matches the name of the associated `IDSymbol` element.

Together, the `guid` and `id` attributes compose the *signature* of the UI element.

- A `priority` attribute that determines the placement of the UI element in its parent menu or group.

- A [Parent element](../../extensibility/parent-element.md) that has `guid` and `id` attributes that specify the signature of the parent menu or group.

#### Menus
Each menu is defined as a [Menu element](../../extensibility/menu-element.md) in the `Menus` section. Menus must have `guid`, `id`, and `priority` attributes, and a `Parent` element, and also the following additional attributes and children:

- A `type` attribute that specifies whether the menu should appear in the IDE as a kind of menu or as a toolbar.

- A [Strings element](../../extensibility/strings-element.md) that contains a [ButtonText element](../../extensibility/buttontext-element.md), which specifies the title of the menu in the IDE, and a [CommandName element](../../extensibility/commandname-element.md), which specifies the name that is used in the **Command** window to access the menu.

- Optional flags. A [CommandFlag element](../../extensibility/command-flag-element.md) may appear in a menu definition to change its appearance or behavior in the IDE.

Every `Menu` element must have a group as its parent, unless it is a dockable element such as a toolbar. A dockable menu is its own parent. For more information about menus and values for the `type` attribute, see the [Menu element](../../extensibility/menu-element.md) documentation.

The following example shows a menu that appears on the Visual Studio menu bar, next to the **Tools** menu.

```xml
<Menu guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="TopLevelMenu" priority="0x700" type="Menu">
  <Parent guid="guidSHLMainMenu" id="IDG_VS_MM_TOOLSADDINS" />
  <Strings>
    <ButtonText>TestMenu</ButtonText>
    <CommandName>TestMenu</CommandName>
  </Strings>
</Menu>
```

#### Groups
A group is an item that is defined in the `Groups` section of the *.vsct* file. Groups are just containers. They do not appear in the IDE except as a dividing line on a menu. Therefore, a [Group element](../../extensibility/group-element.md) is defined only by its signature, priority, and parent.

A group can have a menu, another group, or itself as parent. However, the parent is typically a menu or toolbar. The menu in the earlier example is a child of the `IDG_VS_MM_TOOLSADDINS` group, and that group is a child of the Visual Studio menu bar. The group in the following example is a child of the menu in the earlier example.

```xml
<Group guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="MyMenuGroup" priority="0x0600">
  <Parent guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="TopLevelMenu"/>
</Group>
```

Because it is part of a menu, this group would typically contain commands. However, it could also contain other menus. This is how submenus are defined, as shown in the following example.

```xml
<Menu guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="SubMenu" priority="0x0100" type="Menu">
  <Parent guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="MyMenuGroup"/>
  <Strings>
    <ButtonText>Sub Menu</ButtonText>
    <CommandName>Sub Menu</CommandName>
  </Strings>
</Menu>
```

#### Commands
A command that is provided to the IDE is defined as either a [Button element](../../extensibility/button-element.md) or a [Combo element](../../extensibility/combo-element.md). To appear on a menu or a toolbar, the command must have a group as its parent.

##### Buttons
Buttons are defined in the `Buttons` section. Any menu item, button, or other element that a user clicks to execute a single command is considered a button. Some button types can also include list functionality. Buttons have the same required and optional attributes that menus have, and can also have an [Icon element](../../extensibility/icon-element.md) that specifies the GUID and ID of the bitmap that represents the button in the IDE. For more information about buttons and their attributes, see the [Buttons element](../../extensibility/buttons-element.md) documentation.

The button in the following example is a child of the group in the earlier example, and would appear in the IDE as a menu item on the parent menu of that group.

```xml
<Button guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="cmdidTestCommand" priority="0x0100" type="Button">
  <Parent guid="guidTopLevelMenuCmdSet" id="MyMenuGroup" />
  <Icon guid="guidImages" id="bmpPic1" />
  <Strings>
    <CommandName>cmdidTestCommand</CommandName>
    <ButtonText>Test Command</ButtonText>
  </Strings>
</Button>
```

##### Combos
Combos are defined in the `Combos` section. Each `Combo` element represents a drop-down list box in the IDE. The list box may or may not be writable by users, depending on the value of the `type` attribute of the combo. Combos have the same elements and behavior that buttons have, and can also have the following additional attributes:

- A `defaultWidth` attribute that specifies pixel width.

- An `idCommandList` attribute that specifies a list that contains the items that are displayed in the list box. The command list must be declared in the same `GuidSymbol` node that contains the combo.

The following example defines a combo element.

```xml
<Combos>
  <Combo guid="guidFirstToolWinCmdSet"
         id="cmdidWindowsMediaFilename"
         priority="0x0100" type="DynamicCombo"
         idCommandList="cmdidWindowsMediaFilenameGetList"
         defaultWidth="130">
    <Parent guid="guidFirstToolWinCmdSet"
            id="ToolbarGroupID" />
    <CommandFlag>IconAndText</CommandFlag>
    <CommandFlag>CommandWellOnly</CommandFlag>
    <CommandFlag>StretchHorizontally</CommandFlag>
    <Strings>
      <CommandName>Filename</CommandName>
      <ButtonText>Enter a Filename</ButtonText>
    </Strings>
  </Combo>
</Combos>
```

##### Bitmaps
Commands that will be displayed together with an icon must include an `Icon` element that refers to a bitmap by using its GUID and ID. Each bitmap is defined as a [Bitmap element](../../extensibility/bitmap-element.md) in the `Bitmaps` section. The only required attributes for a `Bitmap` definition are `guid` and `href`, which points to the source file. If the source file is a resource strip, a **usedList** attribute is also required, to list the available images in the strip. For more information, see the [Bitmap element](../../extensibility/bitmap-element.md) documentation.

### Parenting
The following rules govern how an item can call another item as its parent.

|Element|Defined in this section of the Command Table|May be contained (as a parent, or by placement in the `CommandPlacements` section, or both)|May contain (referred to as a parent)|
|-------------| - | - | - |
|Group|[Groups element](../../extensibility/groups-element.md), the IDE, other VSPackages|A menu, a group, the item itself|Menus, groups, and commands|
|Menu|[Menus element](../../extensibility/menus-element.md), the IDE, other VSPackages|1 to *n* groups|0 to *n* groups|
|Toolbar|[Menus element](../../extensibility/menus-element.md), the IDE, other VSPackages|The item itself|0 to *n* groups|
|Menu Item|[Buttons element](../../extensibility/buttons-element.md), the IDE, other VSPackages|1 to *n* groups, the item itself|-0 to *n* groups|
|Button|[Buttons element](../../extensibility/buttons-element.md), the IDE, other VSPackages|1 to *n* groups, the item itself||
|Combo|[Combos element](../../extensibility/combos-element.md), the IDE, other VSPackages|1 to *n* groups, the item itself||

### Menu, command, and group placement
A menu, group, or command can appear in more than one location in the IDE. For an item to appear in multiple locations, it must be added to the `CommandPlacements` section as a [CommandPlacement element](../../extensibility/commandplacement-element.md). Any menu, group, or command can be added as a command placement. However, toolbars cannot be positioned in this manner because they cannot appear in multiple context-sensitive locations.

Command placements have `guid`, `id`, and `priority` attributes. The GUID and ID must match those of the item that is positioned. The `priority` attribute governs the placement of the item with regard to other items. When the IDE merges two or more items that have the same priority, their placements are undefined because the IDE does not guarantee that package resources are read in the same order every time that the package is built.

If a menu or group appears in multiple locations, all children of that menu or group will appear in each instance.

## Command visibility and context
When multiple VSPackages are installed, a profusion of menus, menu items, and toolbars may clutter the IDE. To avoid this problem, you can control the visibility of individual UI elements by using *visibility constraints* and command flags.

### Visibility constraints
A visibility constraint is set as a [VisibilityItem element](../../extensibility/visibilityitem-element.md) in the `VisibilityConstraints` section. A visibility constraint defines specific UI contexts in which the target item is visible. A menu or command that is included in this section is visible only when one of the defined contexts is active. If a menu or command is not referenced in this section, it is always visible by default. This section does not apply to groups.

`VisibilityItem` elements must have three attributes, as follows: the `guid` and `id` of the target UI element, and `context`. The `context` attribute specifies when the target item will be visible, and takes any valid UI context as its value. The UI context constants for Visual Studio are members of the <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.VSConstants> class. Every `VisibilityItem` element can take only one context value. To apply a second context, create a second `VisibilityItem` element that points to the same item, as shown in the following example.

```xml
<VisibilityConstraints>
  <VisibilityItem guid="guidSolutionToolbarCmdSet"
        id="cmdidTestCmd"
        context="UICONTEXT_SolutionHasSingleProject" />
  <VisibilityItem guid="guidSolutionToolbarCmdSet"
        id="cmdidTestCmd"
        context="UICONTEXT_SolutionHasMultipleProjects" />
</VisibilityConstraints>
```

### Command flags
The following command flags can affect the visibility of the menus and commands they apply to.

`AlwaysCreate`
Menu is created even if it has no groups or buttons.

Valid for: `Menu`

`CommandWellOnly`
Apply this flag if the command does not appear on the top-level menu and you want to make it available for additional shell customization, for example, binding it to a key. After the VSPackage is installed, a user can customize these commands by opening the **Options** dialog box and then editing the command placement under the **Keyboard Environment** category. Does not affect placement on shortcut menus, toolbars, menu controllers, or submenus.

Valid for: `Button`, `Combo`

`DefaultDisabled`
By default, the command is disabled if the VSPackage that implements the command is not loaded or the QueryStatus method has not been called.

Valid for: `Button`, `Combo`

`DefaultInvisible`
 By default, the command is invisible if the VSPackage that implements the command is not loaded or the QueryStatus method has not been called.

Should be combined with the `DynamicVisibility` flag.

Valid for: `Button`, `Combo`, `Menu`

`DynamicVisibility`
The visibility of the command can be changed by using the `QueryStatus` method or a context GUID that is included in the `VisibilityConstraints` section.

Applies to commands that appear on menus, not on toolbars. Top-level toolbar items can be disabled, but not hidden, when the `OLECMDF_INVISIBLE` flag is returned from the `QueryStatus` method.

On a menu, this flag also indicates that it should be automatically hidden when its members are hidden. This flag is typically assigned to submenus because top-level menus already have this behavior.

Should be combined with the `DefaultInvisible` flag.

Valid for: `Button`, `Combo`, `Menu`

`NoShowOnMenuController`
If a command that has this flag is positioned on a menu controller, the command does not appear in the drop-down list.

Valid for: `Button`

For more information about command flags, see the [CommandFlag element](../../extensibility/command-flag-element.md) documentation.

#### General requirements
Your command must pass the following series of tests before it can be displayed and enabled:

- The command is positioned correctly.

- The `DefaultInvisible` flag is not set.

- The parent menu or toolbar is visible.

- The command is not invisible because of a context entry in the [VisibilityConstraints element](../../extensibility/visibilityconstraints-element.md) section.

- VSPackage code that implements the <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.OLE.Interop.IOleCommandTarget> interface displays and enables your command. No interface code intercepted it and acted on it.

- When a user clicks your command, it becomes subject to the procedure that is outlined in [Routing algorithm](../../extensibility/internals/command-routing-algorithm.md).

## Call pre-defined commands
The [UsedCommands element](../../extensibility/usedcommands-element.md) enables VSPackages to access commands that are provided by other VSPackages or by the IDE. To do this, create a [UsedCommand element](../../extensibility/usedcommand-element.md) that has the GUID and ID of the command to use. This ensures that the command will be loaded by Visual Studio, even if it is not part of the current Visual Studio configuration. For more information, see [UsedCommand element](../../extensibility/usedcommand-element.md).

## Interface element appearance
Considerations for selecting and positioning command elements are as follows:

- Visual Studio offers many UI elements that appear differently depending on placement.

- A UI element that is defined by using the `DefaultInvisible` flag will not be displayed in the IDE unless it is either displayed by its VSPackage implementation of the <xref:EnvDTE.IDTCommandTarget.QueryStatus%2A> method, or associated with a particular UI context in the `VisibilityConstraints` section.

- Even a successfully positioned command may not be displayed. This is because the IDE automatically hides or displays some commands, depending on interfaces that the VSPackage has (or has not) implemented. For example, a VSPackage's implementation of some build interfaces causes build-related menu items to be automatically shown.

- Applying the `CommandWellOnly` flag in the definition of UI element means that the command can be added only by customization.

- Commands may be available only in certain UI contexts, for example, only when a dialog box is displayed when the IDE is in design view.

- To cause certain UI elements to be displayed in the IDE, you must implement one or more interfaces or write some code.

## Related content
- [Extend menus and commands](../../extensibility/extending-menus-and-commands.md)
