---
title: "How to: Change the Build Output Directory | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-general"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "output directory, changing"
ms.assetid: a8333c89-afb2-4b1d-b2e2-9146da852402
caps.latest.revision: 14
author: "kempb"
ms.author: "kempb"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
translation.priority.mt: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "tr-tr"
---
# How to: Change the Build Output Directory
You can specify the location of output on a per-configuration basis (for debug, release, or both) generated by your project.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  If you have a **Setup** project see the note at the end of this article.  
  
## Changing the Build Output directory  
  
#### To change the build output directory  
  
1.  On the menu bar, choose **Project**, *Appname* **Properties**. You can also right-click the project node in the **Solution Explorer** and select **Properties**.  
  
2.  If you have a Visual Basic project, select the **Compile** tab. If you have a Visual C# project, select the **Build** tab. If you have a C++ project or a JavaScript project, select the **General** tab.  
  
3.  In the configuration drop-down at the top, choose the configuration whose output file location you want to change (debug, release, or all).  
  
     Find the output path entry (**Build output path** in Visual Basic, **Output Directory** in Visual C++, **Output Path** in JavaScript and C#). Specify a new build output directory relative to the project directory.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  In a Setup Project, the **Output file name** box changes only the location of the Setup.exe file, not the location of the project files. For more information, see **Build, Configuration Properties, Deployment Project Properties Dialog Box**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Build Page, Project Designer (C#)](../ide/reference/build-page-project-designer-csharp.md)   
 [General Property Page (Project)](/visual-cpp/ide/general-property-page-project)   
 [Compiling and Building](../ide/compiling-and-building-in-visual-studio.md)