subscriptions/faq/admin/renewal-cancellation/includes/how-to-renew-subscriptions.md, before:

---
title: How do I renew Visual Studio subscriptions?
description: Learn how to renew retail, cloud, and Volume License subscriptions
comment:  As of August 2023 this include file is used to render marketing FAQ content for VS Subscriptions in the following portals - VSCom, Manage, and My portals. It was not used for learn.microsoft.com content at that time.  SMEs are Jose Becerra and Larissa Crawford of Red Door Collaborative and Angela Cao-Hong.
ms.topic: include
ms.assetid: 00b82d16-6a80-42d1-8b71-e12047c6b50c
ms.subservice: 
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
ms.date: 09/24/2024
ms.faqid: q4_1
---

## How do I renew Visual Studio subscriptions? 

You can acquire Visual Studio subscriptions in several ways, and the process for renewing existing subscriptions depends on how you acquired them.

### How to renew retail subscriptions 

If you currently have a retail subscription, there are two ways to renew: 

- Connect to the [Subscriptions page](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions) on the [Subscriptions Portal](https://my.visualstudio.com/benefits) and select on the 'Renew' link. 
- Visit the [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store) and search for 'Visual Studio subscription' to see the available renewal opportunities. Here are some quick links: 

    [Visual Studio Enterprise](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-enterprise-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst4?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab) 

    [Visual Studio Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst3?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)

    [Visual Studio Test Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-test-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst6?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab) 

### How to renew cloud subscriptions
Cloud subscriptions are purchased through the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/).  Both monthly and annual cloud subscriptions renew until you cancel them, so there's no action needed to renew them.

### How to renew subscriptions purchased through Volume Licensing
If your subscription is provided to you by your work, it's probably purchased and renewed through your company's Volume License agreement.  You can reach out to your admin using the **Contact my admin** button at the top right of the [Subscriptions Portal](https://my.visualstudio.com/benefits).

Commit message:

Retail how to renew and activate
Crossed referenced two learn articles, added support information and troubleshooting support.

subscriptions/faq/admin/renewal-cancellation/includes/how-to-renew-subscriptions.md, after:

---
title: How do I renew Visual Studio subscriptions?
description: Learn how to renew retail, cloud, and Volume License subscriptions
comment:  As of August 2023 this include file is used to render marketing FAQ content for VS Subscriptions in the following portals - VSCom, Manage, and My portals. It was not used for learn.microsoft.com content at that time.  SMEs are Jose Becerra and Larissa Crawford of Red Door Collaborative.
ms.topic: include
ms.assetid: 00b82d16-6a80-42d1-8b71-e12047c6b50c
ms.subservice: 
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
ms.date: 09/02/2025
ms.faqid: q4_1
---

## How do I renew Visual Studio subscriptions? 

You can acquire Visual Studio subscriptions in several ways, and the process for renewing existing subscriptions depends on how you acquired them.

### How to renew retail subscriptions 

If you currently have a retail subscription, there are two ways to renew: 

- Connect to the [Subscriptions page](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions) on the [Subscriptions Portal](https://my.visualstudio.com/benefits) and select on the 'Renew' link. 
- Visit the [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store) and search for 'Visual Studio subscription' to see the available renewal opportunities. Here are some quick links: 

    [Visual Studio Enterprise](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-enterprise-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst4?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab) 

    [Visual Studio Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst3?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)

    [Visual Studio Test Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-test-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst6?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab) 

### How to activate subscriptions
After you purchase a Visual Studio subscription, you can begin the activation process from the payment confirmation page or confirmation email you received after your purchase. For activation steps, visit [How to activate subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/subscriptions/buy-activate-retail#how-to-activate-subscriptions).

### How to renew cloud subscriptions
Cloud subscriptions are purchased through the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/). Both monthly and annual cloud subscriptions renew until you cancel them, so there's no action needed to renew them.

### How to renew subscriptions purchased through Volume Licensing
If your subscription is provided to you by your work, it's probably purchased and renewed through your company's Volume License agreement. You can reach out to your admin using the **Contact my admin** button at the top right of the [Subscriptions Portal](https://my.visualstudio.com/benefits).
