---
title: "Building ClickOnce Applications from the Command Line | Microsoft Docs"
description: Learn how to build Visual Studio projects from the command line, which allows you to reproduce a build using an automated process.
ms.date: "04/04/2023"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "ClickOnce deployment, from command line"
  - "publishing"
  - "publishing, ClickOnce"
ms.assetid: d9bc6212-c584-4f72-88c9-9a4b998c555e
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-deployment
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# Build ClickOnce applications from the command line

 [!INCLUDE [Visual Studio](~/includes/applies-to-version/vs-windows-only.md)]

In [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../code-quality/includes/vs_current_short_md.md), you can build projects from the command line, even if they are created in the integrated development environment (IDE). In fact, you can rebuild a project created with [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../code-quality/includes/vs_current_short_md.md) on another computer that has only the .NET Framework installed. This capability allows you to reproduce a build using an automated process, for example, in a central build lab or using advanced scripting techniques beyond the scope of building the project itself.

> [!NOTE]
> To build .NET Core 3.1 or .NET 5+ ClickOnce applications from the command line, see [Build .NET ClickOnce applications from the command line](../deployment/building-dotnet-clickonce-applications-from-the-command-line.md).

## Use MSBuild to reproduce .NET Framework ClickOnce application deployments

 When you invoke msbuild /target:publish at the command line, it tells the MSBuild system to build the project and create a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application in the publish folder. This command is equivalent to selecting the **Publish** command in the IDE.

 This command executes *msbuild.exe*, which is on the path in the Visual Studio command-prompt environment.

 A "target" is an indicator to MSBuild on how to process the command. The key targets are the "build" target and the "publish" target. The build target is the equivalent to selecting the Build command (or pressing F5) in the IDE. If you only want to build your project, you can achieve that by typing `msbuild`. This command works because the build target is the default target for all projects generated by [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../code-quality/includes/vs_current_short_md.md). As a result, you do not explicitly need to specify the build target. Therefore, typing `msbuild` is the same operation as typing `msbuild /target:build`.

 The `/target:publish` command tells MSBuild to invoke the publish target. The publish target depends on the build target, which means that the publish operation is a superset of the build operation. For example, if you made a change to one of your Visual Basic or C# source files, the publish operation would automatically rebuild the corresponding assembly.

 For information on generating a full [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) deployment using the Mage.exe command-line tool to create your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) manifest, see [Walkthrough: Manually deploy a ClickOnce application](../deployment/walkthrough-manually-deploying-a-clickonce-application.md).

## Create and build a basic ClickOnce application with MSBuild

### To create and publish a ClickOnce project

1. Open Visual Studio and create a new project.

    Choose the **Windows Forms App (.NET Framework)** or **WPF App (.NET Framework)** project template and name the project `CmdLineDemo`.

1. From the **Build** menu, click the **Publish** command.

    This step ensures that the project is properly configured to produce a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application deployment.

    The Publish Wizard appears.

1. In the Publish Wizard, click **Finish**.

    Visual Studio generates and displays the default Web page, called *Publish.htm*.

1. Save your project, and make note of the folder location in which it is stored.

   The preceding steps create a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) project that has been published for the first time. Now you can reproduce the build outside of the IDE.

#### To reproduce the build from the command line

1. Exit [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../code-quality/includes/vs_current_short_md.md).

2. From the Windows **Start** menu, click **Tools** > **Command line** > **Developer Command Prompt**.

   The Visual Studio Developer Command Prompt opens.

3. In the **Visual Studio Command Prompt**, make sure the current directory shows the location of the project you built previously. If you're not in the project directory, type a command such as `chdir C:\Users\username\source\repos\CmdLineDemo`.

4. To remove the existing files produced in "To create and publish a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) project," type `rmdir /s publish`.

    This step is optional, but it ensures that the command-line build produces all the new files.

5. Type `msbuild /target:publish`.

   The preceding steps will produce a full [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application deployment in a subfolder of your project named **Publish**. *CmdLineDemo.application* is the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) deployment manifest. The folder *CmdLineDemo_1.0.0.0* contains the files *CmdLineDemo.exe* and *CmdLineDemo.exe.manifest*, the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application manifest. *Setup.exe* is the bootstrapper, which by default is configured to install the .NET Framework. The DotNetFX folder contains the redistributables for the .NET Framework. The files in this location comprise the entire set of files you need to deploy your application over the Web or via UNC or CD/DVD.

> [!NOTE]
> The MSBuild system uses the **PublishDir** option to specify the location for output, for example `msbuild /t:publish /p:PublishDir="<specific location>"`.

## Publish process output

MSBuild uses the `PublishDir` property to set the build output location, including build artifacts. The `PublishDir` value that MSBuild uses as the destination for the publish comes by default from the `PublishDir` property in the project file (.NET Framework), but you can also override it on the MSBuild command line by using the /p switch. If you override the setting, the publish output goes to the location specified. The output is generated during the MSBuild step of publish. Any MSBuild target with `AfterTargets="ClickOncePublish"` runs after this copy is made.

The `PublishUrl` property, unlike `PublishDir`, is not used in the MSBuild step. `PublishUrl` is ignored when you invoke MSBuild directly to publish from the command line.

When Publishing is started in Visual Studio IDE, Visual Studio invokes MSBuild to publish artifacts into the `PublishDir` location. After this MSBuild step is completed, Visual Studio then publishes ClickOnce-specific files to the location pointed to by `PublishUrl`. This second step runs inside the Visual Studio process. You cannot inject any target/task to run during this step because it is a Visual Studio process.

For MSBuild deployments that don't use Visual Studio, copy all of the files in the deployment directory to the deployment destination or media. The deployment directory may be either a folder on a Web site or FTP site, a file share, or a CD-ROM. For example, you might use a third-party tool or a custom MSBuild task to copy the ClickOnce files.

For any post-processing in the `PublishUrl` folder, you need to have a separate script.

>[!IMPORTANT]
> If PublishDir is set to the same location as PublishUrl, duplicate compilation output gets copied to the PublishUrl location. You can avoid this issue in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.4 and later by creating a new profile. The new profile sets PublishDir to a different location than PublishUrl. At the end of the publish operation, the relevant ClickOnce files are copied from PublishDir to PublishUrl location.

## Publish properties

 When you publish the application in the above procedures, the following properties are inserted into your project file by the Publish Wizard. These properties directly influence how the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application is produced.

 In *CmdLineDemo.vbproj* / *CmdLineDemo.csproj*:

```xml
<AssemblyOriginatorKeyFile>WindowsApplication3.snk</AssemblyOriginatorKeyFile>
<GenerateManifests>true</GenerateManifests>
<TargetZone>LocalIntranet</TargetZone>
<PublisherName>Microsoft</PublisherName>
<ProductName>CmdLineDemo</ProductName>
<PublishUrl>http://localhost/CmdLineDemo</PublishUrl>
<Install>true</Install>
<ApplicationVersion>1.0.0.*</ApplicationVersion>
<ApplicationRevision>1</ApplicationRevision>
<UpdateEnabled>true</UpdateEnabled>
<UpdateRequired>false</UpdateRequired>
<UpdateMode>Foreground</UpdateMode>
<UpdateInterval>7</UpdateInterval>
<UpdateIntervalUnits>Days</UpdateIntervalUnits>
<UpdateUrlEnabled>false</UpdateUrlEnabled>
<IsWebBootstrapper>true</IsWebBootstrapper>
<BootstrapperEnabled>true</BootstrapperEnabled>
```

 For .NET Framework projects, you can override these properties at the command line without altering the project file itself. For example, the following will build the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application deployment without the bootstrapper:

```cmd
msbuild /target:publish /property:BootstrapperEnabled=false
 ```

Publishing properties are controlled in [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../code-quality/includes/vsprvs_md.md) from the **Publish**, **Security**, and **Signing** property pages of the **Project Designer**. Below is a description of the publishing properties, along with an indication of how each is set in the various property pages of the application designer:

- `AssemblyOriginatorKeyFile` determines the key file used to sign your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application manifests. This same key may also be used to assign a strong name to your assemblies. This property is set on the **Signing** page of the **Project Designer**.

  The following properties are set on the **Security** page:

- **Enable ClickOnce Security Settings** determines whether [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) manifests are generated. When a project is initially created, [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) manifest generation is off by default. The wizard will automatically turn this flag on when you publish for the first time.

- **TargetZone** determines the level of trust to be emitted into your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application manifest. Possible values are "Internet", "LocalIntranet", and "Custom". Internet and LocalIntranet will cause a default permission set to be emitted into your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application manifest. LocalIntranet is the default, and it basically means full trust. Custom specifies that only the permissions explicitly specified in the base *app.manifest* file are to be emitted into the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application manifest. The *app.manifest* file is a partial manifest file that contains just the trust information definitions. It is a hidden file, automatically added to your project when you configure permissions on the **Security** page.

  The following properties are set on the **Publish** page:

- `PublishUrl` is the location where the application will be published to in the IDE. It is inserted into the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application manifest if neither the `InstallUrl` or `UpdateUrl` property is specified.

- `ApplicationVersion` specifies the version of the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../deployment/includes/ndptecclick_md.md) application. The version is a four-digit number. If the last digit is a "*", then the `ApplicationRevision` is substituted for the value inserted into the manifest at build time.

- `ApplicationRevision` specifies the revision. This value is an integer, which increments each time you publish in the IDE. Notice that it is not automatically incremented for builds performed at the command-line.

- `Install` determines whether the application is an installed application or a run-from-Web application.

- `InstallUrl` (not shown) is the location where users will install the application from. If specified, this value is burned into the *setup.exe* bootstrapper if the `IsWebBootstrapper` property is enabled. It is also inserted into the application manifest if the `UpdateUrl` is not specified.

- `SupportUrl` (not shown) is the location linked in the **Add/Remove Programs** dialog box for an installed application.

  The following properties are set in the **Application Updates** dialog box, accessed from the **Publish** page.

- `UpdateEnabled` indicates whether the application should check for updates.

- `UpdateMode` specifies either Foreground updates or Background updates. 

- `UpdateInterval` specifies how frequently the application should check for updates.

- `UpdateIntervalUnits` specifies whether the `UpdateInterval` value is in units of hours, days, or weeks.

- `UpdateUrl` (not shown) is the location from which the application will receive updates. If specified, this value is inserted into the application manifest.

  The following properties are set in the **Publish Options** dialog box, accessed from the **Publish** page.

- `PublisherName` specifies the name of the publisher displayed in the prompt shown when installing or running the application. In the case of an installed application, it is also used to specify the folder name on the **Start** menu.

- `ProductName` specifies the name of the product displayed in the prompt shown when installing or running the application. In the case of an installed application, it is also used to specify the shortcut name on the **Start** menu.

  The following properties are set in the **Prerequisites** dialog box, accessed from the **Publish** page.

- `BootstrapperEnabled` determines whether to generate the *setup.exe* bootstrapper.

- `IsWebBootstrapper` determines whether the *setup.exe* bootstrapper works over the Web or in disk-based mode.

## InstallURL, SupportUrl, PublishURL, and UpdateURL

 The following table shows the four URL options for ClickOnce deployment.

|URL option|Description|
|----------------|-----------------|
|`PublishURL`|Required if you are publishing your ClickOnce application to a Web site.|
|`InstallURL`|Optional. Set this URL option if the installation site is different than the `PublishURL`. For example, you could set the `PublishURL` to an FTP path and set the `InstallURL` to a Web URL.|
|`SupportURL`|Optional. Set this URL option if the support site is different than the `PublishURL`. For example, you could set the `SupportURL` to your company's customer support Web site.|
|`UpdateURL`|Optional. Set this URL option if the update location is different than the `InstallURL`. For example, you could set the `PublishURL` to an FTP path and set the `UpdateURL` to a Web URL.|

## See also

- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Tasks.GenerateBootstrapper>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Tasks.GenerateApplicationManifest>
- <xref:Microsoft.Build.Tasks.GenerateDeploymentManifest>
- [ClickOnce security and deployment](../deployment/clickonce-security-and-deployment.md)
- [Walkthrough: Manually deploy a ClickOnce application](../deployment/walkthrough-manually-deploying-a-clickonce-application.md)
