docs/msbuild/errors/msb1025.md, before:

---
title: "MSB1025 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB1025 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1025
 - MSBuild.FatalError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1025 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1025 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB1025: An internal failure occurred while running MSBuild.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB1025: An internal failure occurred while running MSBuild. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1025: "}UE: This message is shown when the application has to terminate either because of a bug in the code, or because some
      FX/CLR method threw an unexpected exception.
      LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" and "MSBuild" should not be localized.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb1025.md, after:

---
title: "MSB1025 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB1025 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1025
 - MSBuild.FatalError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1025 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1025 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB1025: An internal failure occurred while running MSBuild.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB1025: An internal failure occurred while running MSBuild. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1025: "}UE: This message is shown when the application has to terminate either because of a bug in the code, or because some
      FX/CLR method threw an unexpected exception.
      LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" and "MSBuild" should not be localized.
-->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild itself generates a fatal error while building your project. This could occur if MSBuild encounters an error that it was not expecting, such as when your system is out of memory, or it could indicate an engineering defect in MSBuild. The exception is usually printed after the MSBuild message text.

## Resolution

If the exception text indicates a system issue, such as an out-of-memory error, address that if you can, and then try rerunning MSBuild. For an out-of-memory issue, close open applications. On Windows, use the Task Manager to identify processes that are using up memory, and shut them down. Check for any bad processes that might be using up memory erroneously.

If the exception text isn't obviously a system issue, you can report the issue either as a Visual Studio bug, or as an MSBuild issue. See [Report a problem](../../ide/how-to-report-a-problem-with-visual-studio.md) or the [MSBuild GitHub repository](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
