---
title: "MSB1004 diagnostic code"
description: "Specify the name of the target."
ms.date: 04/17/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1004
 - MSBuild.MissingTargetError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1004 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1004 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB1004: Specify the name of the target.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1004: "}UE: This happens if the user does something like "msbuild.exe -target". The user must pass in an actual target name
      following the switch, as in "msbuild.exe -target:blah".
      LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
## Description

This errors occurs when the MSBuild command line contains a `-targets` or `-t` switch, which is used to request a specific target to build, but no target was specified.

## Resolution

Provide the target name that you want to build by putting it just after the `-t` or `-targets` switch. If that isn't the problem, check for typos in the command-line syntax, such as mismatched quotes or unintended shell escape characters. If you're constructing the MSBuild command line using an environment variable or shell script, check that the environment variable exists, has a value, and is referenced using the correct shell-specific syntax.

Possible targets might be defined in the project file itself. These appear with syntax like `<Target Name="MyTarget">`, which begins the specification of a target in the project file. Or, you can specify a target from of the system-provided target files. These are files, typically with the `.targets` extension, such as `Microsoft.Common.targets`, `Microsoft.Common.CSharp.targets`, and so on in the MSBuild installation folders. If you're using a project SDK (for example, you used the `Sdk="Microsoft.Net.Sdk"` attribute on the `Project` node in the project file), these system `.targets` files are imported implicitly.

If you don't know what the name of your desired target is, or what target you want to build, try issuing the command `MSBuild.exe -targets`, which generates a list of available targets, but doesn't run the build.

For more information, see [MSBuild targets](../msbuild-targets.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
