docs/msbuild/errors/msb1022.md, before:

---
title: "MSB1022 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB1022 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1022
 - MSBuild.ResponseFileNotFoundError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1022 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1022 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB1022: Response file does not exist.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB1022: Response file does not exist. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1022: "}UE: This message would show if the user did something like "msbuild @bogus.rsp" where bogus.rsp doesn't exist. This
    message does not need in-line parameters because the exception takes care of displaying the invalid arg.
    LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb1022.md, after:

---
title: "MSB1022 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB1022 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1022
 - MSBuild.ResponseFileNotFoundError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1022 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1022 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB1022: Response file does not exist.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB1022: Response file does not exist. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1022: "}UE: This message would show if the user did something like "msbuild @bogus.rsp" where bogus.rsp doesn't exist. This
    message does not need in-line parameters because the exception takes care of displaying the invalid arg.
    LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
## Description

This error occurs if MSBuild was provided a response file at the MSBuild command line, but the file was not found. Response files typically have the extension `.rsp`. See [MSBuild response files](../msbuild-response-files.md).

## Resolution

Check that the response file specified in the MSBuild command line exists in the expected directory, and that the path, syntax, and spelling are correct. For paths with spaces, ensure that quotes are used to prevent the command from being misinterpreted.

If the first response file contains references to other response files, be sure to check each nested response file. Check the default response files (*MSBuild.rsp* or *Directory.Build.rsp*) that are included automatically as well, if they exist and reference other response files.

Be aware that some third-party tools invoke MSBuild using a generated response file in a temporary folder, based on the path specified in the TMP or TEMP environment variable. Refer to the documentation of the third-party tools to troubleshoot the problem.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
