docs/msbuild/errors/msb1009.md, before:

---
title: "MSB1009 diagnostic code"
description: "Project file does not exist."
ms.date: 01/14/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1009
 - MSBuild.ProjectNotFoundError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1009 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1009 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB1009: Project file does not exist.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1009: "}UE: This message does not need in-line parameters because the exception takes care of displaying the invalid arg.
      LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add docs for four error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb1009.md, after:

---
title: "MSB1009 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of MSB1009 build error and get troubleshooting tips to resolve it.
ms.date: 03/25/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1009
 - MSBuild.ProjectNotFoundError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1009 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1009 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB1009: Project file does not exist.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1009: "}UE: This message does not need in-line parameters because the exception takes care of displaying the invalid arg.
      LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
This error occurs when MSBuild is processing the command line, and it couldn't locate the project file.

First, verify that the project file exists in the directory where MSBuild was run, and that the path is correct. Then, check the syntax of the command line carefully, especially for problems with special characters.

If any switch contains filenames with spaces, the filename or entire switch and its arguments must be enclosed in quotes.

Check for mismatched quotes or unintended escape characters, such as backlashes. In some cases, special characters in command lines (for example, in filename or arguments to switches) must be escaped. Refer to the documentation for the specific command shell you're using for its handling of special characters and escapes.

Refer to the following documentation for certain command shells to see how they handle quotes and special characters:

- [cmd](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/cmd)
- [PowerShell](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_quoting_rules)
- [Bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Quoting.html)

The basic syntax for the MSBuild command line is `MSBuild.exe [switches] [project file]`. Check each part of the command line, and all the switches against the expected syntax as documented at [MSBuild command line reference](../msbuild-command-line-reference.md).
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
