docs/msbuild/errors/msb1008.md, before:

---
title: "MSB1008 diagnostic code"
description: "Only one project can be specified."
ms.date: 01/14/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1008
 - MSBuild.DuplicateProjectSwitchError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1008 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1008 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB1008: Only one project can be specified.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1008: "}UE: This happens if the user does something like "msbuild.exe myapp.proj myapp2.proj". This is not allowed.
    MSBuild.exe will only build a single project. The help topic may link to an article about how to author an MSBuild project
    that itself launches MSBuild on a number of other projects.
    LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add docs for four error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb1008.md, after:

---
title: "MSB1008 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of MSB1008 build error and get troubleshooting tips to resolve it.
ms.date: 03/25/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB1008
 - MSBuild.DuplicateProjectSwitchError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB1008 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB1008 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB1008: Only one project can be specified.`

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSBUILD : error MSB1008: "}UE: This happens if the user does something like "msbuild.exe myapp.proj myapp2.proj". This is not allowed.
    MSBuild.exe will only build a single project. The help topic may link to an article about how to author an MSBuild project
    that itself launches MSBuild on a number of other projects.
    LOCALIZATION: The prefix "MSBUILD : error MSBxxxx:" should not be localized.
-->
## Remarks

This error occurs when there's something wrong with the command line that caused MSBuild to not find the project file, or found more than one part of the command line that it tried to interpret as a project file.

You usually specify one and only one project file on the command line. If you specify more than one, this error occurs.

## Resolution

In command-line builds, check the syntax carefully for misplaced quotes, or escape characters such as blackslashes. This error can occur if the command line syntax is incorrect.

Refer to the following documentation for certain command shells to see how they handle quotes and special characters:

- [cmd](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/cmd)
- [PowerShell](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_quoting_rules)
- [Bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Quoting.html)

The basic syntax for the MSBuild command line is `MSBuild.exe [switches] [project file]`. Check each part of the command line, and all the switches against the expected syntax as documented at [MSBuild command line reference](../msbuild-command-line-reference.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
