docs/msbuild/errors/msb3022.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3022 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3022 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3022
 - MSBuild.Copy.ExactlyOneTypeOfDestination
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3022 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3022 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3022: Both 'value' and 'value' were specified as input parameters in the project file. Please choose one or the other.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3022: Both "{0}" and "{1}" were specified as input parameters in the project file. Please choose one or the other. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3022: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3022.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3022 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3022 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3022
 - MSBuild.Copy.ExactlyOneTypeOfDestination
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3022 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3022 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3022: Both 'value' and 'value' were specified as input parameters in the project file. Please choose one or the other.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3022: Both "{0}" and "{1}" were specified as input parameters in the project file. Please choose one or the other. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3022: "}
-->
## Description

The `Copy` task can be used in one of two ways. You can specify a list that contains the destination path for each file in the source list, or you can specify a destination directory. This error occurs if you specify both a list of files and a directory.

## Resolution

If you control the invocation of the `Copy` task, choose the most appropriate method of specifying the destination files, and remove the other parameter.

See [Copy task](../copy-task.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
