docs/msbuild/errors/msb3568.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3568 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3568 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3568
 - MSBuild.GenerateResource.DuplicateResourceName
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3568 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3568 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3568: Duplicate resource name 'value' is not allowed, ignored.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3568: Duplicate resource name "{0}" is not allowed, ignored. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3568: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3568.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3568 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3568 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3568
 - MSBuild.GenerateResource.DuplicateResourceName
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3568 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3568 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3568: Duplicate resource name 'value' is not allowed, ignored.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3568: Duplicate resource name "{0}" is not allowed, ignored. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3568: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when a resource file has more than one resource with the same name.

## Resolution

The resource name that has more than one occurrence is listed in the error message. If this is a manually maintained text resource file (`.resx` file) or binary resource file (`.resources` file), open the file in a resource editing tool such as Visual Studio, and manually remove the duplicate resources.

If the duplicate resource is from an automatically generated resource file, check the inputs to the script or tool that that modifies or generates the resource file.

For more information, see [Create resource files for .NET apps](/dotnet/core/extensions/create-resource-files).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
