docs/msbuild/errors/msb3088.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3088 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3088 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3088
 - MSBuild.General.CouldNotReadStateFile
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3088 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3088 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3088: Could not read state file 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3088: Could not read state file "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3088: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3088.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3088 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3088 build message, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3088
 - MSBuild.General.CouldNotReadStateFile
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3088 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3088 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3088: Could not read state file 'filename'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3088: Could not read state file "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3088: "}
-->
## Description

MSBuild uses certain files called state files to cache information between one build session and another; for example, information about dependencies for referenced assemblies. This information is used to improve performance. In the case of the information stored about referenced assemblies, that is used when referenced assemblies haven't changed between builds to avoid having to repeat the same dependency analysis each time you build.

This message is shown when a one of the state files could not be read, for any reason. It may be followed by a message from the operating system indicating more about what the error was.

## Resolution

This is not an error, so your project still builds even if this message is shown. However, it might mean that builds could be faster if the root of the problem is found and fixed.

Look to the error message from the operating system to understand what the root cause of the problem is and get ideas on how to address it. 
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
