docs/msbuild/errors/msb3189.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3189 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3189 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3189
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.InvalidDeploymentProvider
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3189 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3189 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3189: The update location for this application is a local path.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3189: The update location for this application is a local path. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3189: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Revise MSB3189 documentation date and add description
Updated the date for the MSB3189 error documentation and added a description of the error's cause.

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3189.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3189 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3189 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 9/29/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3189
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.InvalidDeploymentProvider
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3189 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3189 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3189: The update location for this application is a local path.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3189: The update location for this application is a local path. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error is given when the ClickOnce deployment path is not in one of the supported formats. The string must be a fully qualified URL or UNC path, for example "http://www.contoso.com/myapplication" or "\\server\myapplication". Local paths and mapped network drives are not supported.
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3189: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
