docs/msbuild/errors/msb3025.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3025 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3025 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3025
 - MSBuild.Copy.SourceIsDirectory
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3025 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3025 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3025: The source file 'value' is actually a directory.  The 'Copy' task does not support copying directories.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3025: The source file "{0}" is actually a directory.  The "Copy" task does not support copying directories. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3025: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3025.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3025 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3025 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3025
 - MSBuild.Copy.SourceIsDirectory
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3025 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3025 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3025: The source file 'value' is actually a directory.  The 'Copy' task does not support copying directories.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3025: The source file "{0}" is actually a directory.  The "Copy" task does not support copying directories. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3025: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when the [Copy task](../copy-task.md) is provided a path to a directory in the `SourceFiles` parameter. Since the MSBuild `Copy` task doesn't support copying directories, this is an error.

## Resolution

If you control the build logic where the `Copy` task is used, check your logic that creates the inputs for the `SourceFiles` parameter to see whether the paths you're providing are the ones you intended. If your intention is to copy the contents of a directory, the `SourceFiles` parameter of the `Copy` task should be an item that includes the files in the directory.

This can also occur if a folder structure changes and what was a path to a file is now a path to a folder. Update path inputs such as environment variables, command lines, and MSBuild properties to account for the new folder structure.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
