---
title: "MSB3023 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3023 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 11/20/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3023
 - MSBuild.Copy.NeedsDestination
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3023 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3023 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3023: No destination specified for Copy. Please supply either 'value' or 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3023: No destination specified for Copy. Please supply either "{0}" or "{1}". -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This occurs when an empty value is supplied in the project file (or one of its imports) for the destination of a copy operation. This is often because a property value was misspelled, resulting in an empty string instead of the expected value.

## Resolution

Check all properties in the project file used in the operation where the error occurs, and correct any misspellings or unintended inconsistencies. Make sure all properties used for destination files and folders have a value.

If the issue arises from system build files, the caused might be due to a problem with some metadata. You can use the `-v:diag` switch on the MSBuild command line to get more detailed output that might help determine where the error comes from. The related diagnostic verbosity settings can be configured in the Visual Studio IDE.

:::moniker range="visualstudio"

In the **Tools** > **Options** pane, expand the **All Settings** > **Projects and Solutions** > **Build and Run** section, and set the **MSBuild project build output verbosity** and **MSBuild project build log file verbosity** options to **Diagnostic**.

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range="<=vs-2022"
      
In the **Tools** > **Options** dialog, expand the **Projects and Solutions** > **Build and Run** section, and set the **MSBuild project build output verbosity** and **MSBuild project build log file verbosity** options to **Diagnostic**.

:::moniker-end

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
