docs/msbuild/errors/msb3096.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3096 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3096 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3096
 - MSBuild.General.TaskRequiresWindows
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3096 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3096 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3096: Task 'value' is only supported when building on Windows.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3096: Task "{0}" is only supported when building on Windows. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3096: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3096.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3096 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3096 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3096
 - MSBuild.General.TaskRequiresWindows
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3096 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3096 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3096: Task 'task-name' is only supported when building on Windows.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3096: Task "{0}" is only supported when building on Windows. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3096: "}
-->
## Description

Certain tasks are only supported on Windows, because they use resources or tools that are only available on the Windows operating system. If you're building a project that depends on these tasks on another operating system, such as Linux or MacOS, then you get this error. The tasks that produce this error are only relevant on Windows, because they relate to Windows-specific features such as application manifests.

The following tasks are only supported on Windows:

- [GenerateApplicationManifest](../generateapplicationmanifest-task.md)
- [GenerateDeploymentManifest](../generatedeploymentmanifest-task.md)
- GenerateLauncher
- GenerateManifestBase
- GetInstalledSDKLocations
- GetSDKReferenceFiles
- ResolveSDKReference
- [SignFile](../signfile-task.md)

## Resolution

Build the project on Windows, if that is appropriate in your situation. In CI/CD environments, check pipeline configurations and be sure the pipeline is requesting a Windows build agent for the project.

For projects that are intended to build on Linux or MacOS, you need to find out where in your build logic the request to the task mentioned in the error message is coming from. Turn on verbose diagnostics (use the `-v:diag` command-line switch), or generate a binary log (`-bl` command-line switch) and use the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com) to debug the build logic.

Check the documentation for the task in the [MSBuild task reference](../msbuild-task-reference.md) to see what its requirements are, and if any equivalent exists that supports your operating system.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
