---
title: "MSB3176 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3176 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/14/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3176
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.GreaterMinimumRequiredVersion
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3176 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3176 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB3176: Specified minimum required version is greater than the current publish version. Please specify a version less than or equal to the current publish version.`

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error refers to the minimum required version property you specified for the ClickOnce manifest. See [Choose a ClickOnce update strategy - make updates required](../../deployment/choosing-a-clickonce-update-strategy.md#make-updates-required).

This error occurs when the version you specified as the minimum required version is greater than the current version you're building.

## Resolution

Check the minimum required version property and change it so that it is less than or equal to the current version. If a user has a version below this version, they are required to update at least to the minimum required version. The minimum version requirement is optional. If you don't want to require a minimum version, you can turn off this setting.

For .NET applications, in the Visual Studio **Publish** tool, you can change the minimum required version setting by choosing the **Update settings** link on the **Settings** screen.

:::image type="content" source="./media/msb3176/update-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Application Settings screen in Visual Studio, reached from the Update Settings link on the Settings page in the Publish wizard." :::

For .NET Framework, Open the Project Properties (**Alt**+**Enter**) and navigate to the **Publish** property page, then select **Updates** to specify the minimum required version.

Or, in the [deployment manifest](../../deployment/deployment-element-clickonce-deployment.md), you can find this property as an attribute of the `deployment` element:

`<deployment install="true" minimumRequiredVersion="1.0.0.0">`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
