---
title: MSB3325 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3325 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3325
 - MSBuild.ResolveKeySource.KeyFileForSignAssemblyNotImported
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3325 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3325 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB3325: Cannot import the following key file: {0}. The key file may be password protected. To correct this try to import the certificate again or manually install the certificate to the Strong Name CSP with the following key container name: 'name'.`

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

MSBuild might prodice this error if you checked the **Sign the assembly** option in the **Project Properties**, and chose a `.pfx` file for assembly signing. In this scenario, the strong name public key needs to get imported to the Cryptographic Service Provider (CSP) on the machine when the `.pfx` file is selected. When you publish an app, MSBuild tries to sign the assembly. If the signing code can't read the strong name public key from the strong name CSP for any reason, MSBuild returns this error.

## Resolution

When you get this error for any reason, the workaround is to manually install the `.pfx` file in the strong name Cryptographic Service Provider (CSP) with the key container name specified in the error message.

To install the strong name certificate to the CSP manually, open a developer command prompt, and run the `sn.exe` command as follows:

```cmd
sn.exe -i <pfx_file> <key_container_name_from_error_message>
```

After you run the `sn.exe` command, the publish process should be able to read the strong name public key from the CSP and strong name sign the assembly.

:::image type="content" source="media/msb3325/signing-sign-the-assembly.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Signing tab in Project Properties.":::

:::moniker range=">=vs-2022"

For newer .NET projects, the strong name setting is in the **Build** section of the **Project Properties**:

:::image type="content" source="media/msb3325/sign-the-assembly.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Build Strong naming section of the Project Properties.":::

:::moniker-end

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild