docs/msbuild/errors/msb3245.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3245: Could not resolve this reference. 'assembly' If this reference is required by your code, you may get compilation errors."
description: "This diagnostic code is emitted when MSBuild can't find an assembly referenced in your project."
ms.date: 1/21/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3245
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.FailedToResolveReference
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3245

This diagnostic code is emitted when MSBuild can't resolve an assembly reference in your project.

The full message resembles the following text:

`MSB3245: Could not resolve this reference. 'assembly' If this reference is required by your code, you may get compilation errors.`

This error might occur if the item is a directory, not a file, or it could occur if the assembly resolver for that reference returns an error. It could be any error that prevents resolution of the reference, such as a missing assembly, misspelled name, version mismatch, mismatched processor architecture, or failed `ProjectReference`.

For a guide on resolving errors with assembly references, see [Troubleshoot assembly references](../troubleshoot-assembly-references.md).

### Related content

- [MSBuild ResolveAssemblyReference Task Documentation](../resolveassemblyreference-task.md)

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3245.md, after:

---
title: MSB3245 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3245 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3245
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.FailedToResolveReference
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3245

This article describes the MSB3245 error code.

## Message text

`MSB3245: Could not resolve this reference. 'assembly' If this reference is required by your code, you may get compilation errors.`

## Description

This diagnostic code is emitted when MSBuild can't resolve an assembly reference in your project.

## Resolution

This error might occur if the item is a directory, not a file, or if the assembly resolver for the reference returns an error. Any error might prevent resolution of the reference, such as a missing assembly, a misspelled name, version mismatch, mismatched processor architecture, or failed `ProjectReference`.

For a guide on resolving errors with assembly references, see [Troubleshoot assembly references](../troubleshoot-assembly-references.md) and [MSBuild ResolveAssemblyReference Task Documentation](../resolveassemblyreference-task.md).

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
