docs/msbuild/errors/msb3274.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3274"
description: "The primary reference 'name' could not be resolved because it was built against the 'version' framework. This is a higher version than the currently targeted framework 'version'"
ms.date: "06/18/2021"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3274
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.PrimaryReferenceOutsideOfFrameworkUsingAttribute
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3274: The primary reference 'name' could not be resolved because it was built against the 'version' framework

The full error is similar to the following text:

```output
 The primary reference 'name' could not be resolved because it was built against the 'version' framework. This is a higher version than the currently targeted framework 'version'.
```

This error occurs in .NET Framework projects when the version of a reference is higher than the version you are currently building for. Consider targeting a more recent version of the .NET Framework. For instance, if your project targets .NET Framework 4.7.2, you might see this error if you reference a NuGet package or another project that targets .NET Framework 4.8.

In Visual Studio, check the **Target framework** in the project's property pages. See [Framework targeting overview](../../ide/visual-studio-multi-targeting-overview.md#change-the-target-framework).

In a project file, you can set the target framework as follows:

```xml
<TargetFrameworkVersion>v4.0</TargetFrameworkVersion>
```

To suppress this error you can set the following MSBuild property:
```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <ResolveAssemblyReferenceIgnoreTargetFrameworkAttributeVersionMismatch>true</ResolveAssemblyReferenceIgnoreTargetFrameworkAttributeVersionMismatch>
</PropertyGroup>
```

For a guide on resolving errors with assembly references, see [Troubleshoot assembly references](../troubleshoot-assembly-references.md).

## See also

- [MSBuild target framework and target platform](../msbuild-target-framework-and-target-platform.md)
- [Source code](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild/blob/d0af670c220f48693d5f1e4bab126d4367d77e05/src/Tasks/Microsoft.Common.CurrentVersion.targets#L2440)

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3274.md, after:

---
title: MSB3274 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3274 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3274
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.PrimaryReferenceOutsideOfFrameworkUsingAttribute
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3274

This article describes the MSB3274 error code.

## Message text

`The primary reference 'name' could not be resolved because it was built against the 'version' framework. This is a higher version than the currently targeted framework 'version'.`

## Description

This error occurs in .NET Framework projects when the version of a reference is higher than the version you're currently building for.

## Resolution

Consider targeting a more recent version of the .NET Framework. For instance, if your project targets .NET Framework 4.7.2, you might see this error if you reference a NuGet package or another project that targets .NET Framework 4.8.

In Visual Studio, check the **Target framework** in the project's property pages. For more information, see [Framework targeting overview](../../ide/visual-studio-multi-targeting-overview.md#change-the-target-framework).

In a project file, you can set the target framework as follows:

```xml
<TargetFrameworkVersion>v4.0</TargetFrameworkVersion>
```

To suppress this error, you can set the following MSBuild property:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <ResolveAssemblyReferenceIgnoreTargetFrameworkAttributeVersionMismatch>true</ResolveAssemblyReferenceIgnoreTargetFrameworkAttributeVersionMismatch>
</PropertyGroup>
```

For a guide on resolving errors with assembly references, see [Troubleshoot assembly references](../troubleshoot-assembly-references.md).

For more information, see [MSBuild target framework and target platform](../msbuild-target-framework-and-target-platform.md) and [Source code](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild/blob/d0af670c220f48693d5f1e4bab126d4367d77e05/src/Tasks/Microsoft.Common.CurrentVersion.targets#L2440).

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
