docs/msbuild/errors/msb3028.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3028 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3028 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3028
 - MSBuild.Copy.InvalidRetryCount
 - MSBuild.Delete.InvalidRetryCount
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3028 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3028 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3028: 'value' is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative.
MSB3028: 'value' is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3028: {0} is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative.
MSB3028: {0} is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3028: "} LOCALIZATION: {0} is a number.

{StrBegin="MSB3028: "} LOCALIZATION: {0} is a number.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3028.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3028 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3028 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3028
 - MSBuild.Copy.InvalidRetryCount
 - MSBuild.Delete.InvalidRetryCount
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3028 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3028 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3028: 'value' is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative.
MSB3028: 'value' is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3028: {0} is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative.
MSB3028: {0} is an invalid retry count. Value must not be negative. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3028: "} LOCALIZATION: {0} is a number.

{StrBegin="MSB3028: "} LOCALIZATION: {0} is a number.
-->
## Description

The retry count parameter of a Copy or Delete task determine how many attempts are made to perform the operation before returning an error. This must be a positive number.

## Resolution

Check the values provided for the parameters of the task, and if any properties are referenced, ensure the properties are defined, and the values are correct.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
