docs/msbuild/errors/msb3686.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3686 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3686 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3686
 - MSBuild.Xaml.TaskCreationFailed
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3686 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3686 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3686: Unable to create Xaml task.  Compilation failed.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3686: Unable to create Xaml task.  Compilation failed.  {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3686: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3686.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3686 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3686 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3686
 - MSBuild.Xaml.TaskCreationFailed
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3686 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3686 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3686: Unable to create Xaml task.  Compilation failed.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3686: Unable to create Xaml task.  Compilation failed.  {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3686: "}
-->
## Description

The <xref:microsoft.build.tasks.xamltaskfactory> creates a task at build time from the specified XML. It tries to compile a source file generated from an XML file specified in the `Task` element of the `UsingTask` element and, if the compilation files, this error occurs. It is followed by more specific error information from the compiler.

> [!CAUTION]
> `XamlTaskFactory` is not recommended for new development. It is not supported in .NET Core and .NET 5 and later.

## Resolution

Look to the following lines in the MSBuild output or log to see what the compilation error is. Identify the source XML file in the `Task` element of the `UsingTask` element. Review the XML input for correctness.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
