docs/msbuild/errors/msb3172.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3172 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3172 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3172
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.ReadInputManifestFailed
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3172 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3172 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3172: Unable to read manifest 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3172: Unable to read manifest '{0}'. {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3172: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3172.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3172 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3172 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3172
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.ReadInputManifestFailed
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3172 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3172 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3172: Unable to read manifest 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3172: Unable to read manifest '{0}'. {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3172: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild tries to read a manifest file, but some error occurs. The text from MSBuild is followed by a more detailed error message from the operating system.

## Resolution

Look to the detailed message for more information about the problem. Open the manifest file in an XML editor and check for any invalid syntax, or other unexpected or incorrect changes to the file.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
