docs/msbuild/errors/msb3212.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3212 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3212 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3212
 - MSBuild.RegisterAssembly.CantExportTypeLib
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3212 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3212 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3212: The assembly 'value' could not be converted to a type library.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3212: The assembly "{0}" could not be converted to a type library. {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3212: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3212.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3212 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3212 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3212
 - MSBuild.RegisterAssembly.CantExportTypeLib
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3212 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3212 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3212: The assembly 'assembly-name' could not be converted to a type library.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3212: The assembly "{0}" could not be converted to a type library. {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3212: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when executing the [RegisterAssembly task](../registerassembly-task.md) in the process of creating a type library when registering a .NET Framework assembly for use as a COM object. This error message is usually followed by text from an underlying tool such as [TlbExp.exe](/dotnet/framework/tools/tlbexp-exe-type-library-exporter) or from the Windows API that gives details of the error that occurred.

## Resolution

Look to the second error message for the cause of the problem and guidance on how to fix it.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
