docs/msbuild/errors/msb3270.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3270: There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built 'architecture' and the processor architecture of the reference 'reference', 'architecture'."
description: "This mismatch may cause runtime failures. Please consider changing the targeted processor architecture of your project through the Configuration Manager so as to align the processor architectures between your project and references, or take a dependency on references with a processor architecture that matches the targeted processor architecture of your project."
ms.date: "05/04/2021"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3270
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.MismatchBetweenTargetedAndReferencedArch
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3270: There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built 'arch' and the processor architecture of the reference 'reference', 'arch'

The complete message is similar to the following text:

```output
MSB3270: There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built 'architecture' and the processor architecture of the reference 'dependency', 'architecture'. This mismatch may cause runtime failures. Please consider changing the targeted processor architecture of your project through the Configuration Manager so as to align the processor architectures between your project and references, or take a dependency on references with a processor architecture that matches the targeted processor architecture of your project.
```

## Possible causes

The message says that you're trying to use a dependency that is of an architecture that doesn't match the target architecture your project is configured for. You first need to confirm your target architectures are correct, and then make sure that all dependencies that are referenced match that target architecture. 

In MSBuild, the `PlatformTarget` property is used to define the target platform.

Setting the MSBuild property `ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch` to None or Warning in the project file suppresses this warning:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
   <!-- other property settings -->
   <ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>None</ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>
</PropertyGroup>
```

In Visual Studio, the current platform is set in the menu bar in the IDE, to the right of the **Configuration** dropdown and to the left of the green **Start** button. The current target platform is usually set at the solution level to control the builds for every project. If you need to view or change the platforms for the solution, see [Configure projects to target platforms](../../ide/how-to-configure-projects-to-target-platforms.md).

The platform for an individual project can also be viewed and configured in the **Project Properties**. You can right-click on the project node, choose **Properties**, or press **Alt**+**Enter** to open the project properties editor. For C# projects, expand the **Build** tab, and find the **Platform target** setting. For .NET Framework and all Visual Basic projects, choose the **Compile** tab and find **Target CPU**.

## See also

- [MSBuild target framework and target platform](../msbuild-target-framework-and-target-platform.md)

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3270.md, after:

---
title: MSB3270 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3270 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3270
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.MismatchBetweenTargetedAndReferencedArch
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3270

This article describes the MSB3270 error code.

## Message text

`MSB3270: There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built 'architecture' and the processor architecture of the reference 'dependency', 'architecture'. This mismatch may cause runtime failures. Please consider changing the targeted processor architecture of your project through the Configuration Manager so as to align the processor architectures between your project and references, or take a dependency on references with a processor architecture that matches the targeted processor architecture of your project.`

## Description

The message indicates that you're trying to use a dependency from an architecture that doesn't match the target architecture configured for your project.

## Resolution

First, confirm your target architectures are correct. Then make sure all referenced dependencies match the target architecture. 

In MSBuild, the `PlatformTarget` property is used to define the target platform.

Setting the MSBuild property `ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch` to `None` or `Warning` in the project file suppresses this warning:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
   <!-- other property settings -->
   <ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>None</ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>
</PropertyGroup>
```

The current platform setting is visible on the menu bar in the Visual Studio IDE. Notice the value between the green **Start** button and the **Configuration** dropdown list. The current target platform is usually set at the solution level to control the builds for every project. If you need to view or change the platforms for the solution, see [Configure projects to target platforms](../../ide/how-to-configure-projects-to-target-platforms.md).

The platform for an individual project can also be viewed and configured in the **Project Properties**. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project node and select **Properties**, or use the **Alt**+**Enter** keyboard shortcut to open the project properties editor. For C# projects, expand the **Build** tab, and find the **Platform target** setting. For .NET Framework and all Visual Basic projects, choose the **Compile** tab and find **Target CPU**.

For more information, see [MSBuild target framework and target platform](../msbuild-target-framework-and-target-platform.md).

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
