docs/msbuild/errors/msb3094.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3094 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3094 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3094
 - MSBuild.General.TwoVectorsMustHaveSameLength
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3094 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3094 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3094: 'value' refers to 'value' item(s), and 'value' refers to 'value' item(s). They must have the same number of items.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3094: "{2}" refers to {0} item(s), and "{3}" refers to {1} item(s). They must have the same number of items. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3094: "}

{StrBegin="MSB3094: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3094.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3094 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3094 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3094
 - MSBuild.General.TwoVectorsMustHaveSameLength
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3094 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3094 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3094: 'value' refers to 'value' item(s), and 'value' refers to 'value' item(s). They must have the same number of items.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3094: "{2}" refers to {0} item(s), and "{3}" refers to {1} item(s). They must have the same number of items. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3094: "}

{StrBegin="MSB3094: "}
-->
## Description

In certain operations, MSBuild tasks accept two input parameters that represent lists of items, such as sets of source and destination files for the Copy task. The logic of the task requires that the lists have the same number of items. If there's a mismatch in the number of items when they should be the same, you get this error.

## Resolution

The error message points to the items and the counts of each item. Check the items and how they're created for logic or syntax errors.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
