---
title: MSB3482 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3482 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3482
 - MSBuild.SignFile.SignToolError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3482 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3482 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3482: An error occurred while signing:`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3482: An error occurred while signing: {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild encounters an error when it tries to sign an output file while running the [SignFile task](../signfile-task.md). 

## Resolution

First, confirm the sign file exists. Next, make sure the signing tool is installed (the tool is installed as part of Visual Studio).

The standard output message text is followed by additional information from the signing tool. Look to the additional information to determine the cause of the problem. If the error mentions an option that isn't supported, such as the `/fd` option, you might have an older version of the *signtool.exe* file on your system. When the process encounters the older or unsupported version of the file, MSBuild returns this error message.

MSBuild works with the version of the tool in the Visual Studio or .NET SDK installation. The fix for the issue depends on your specific situation. Here are some possible solutions:

- Edit the PATH environment variable and reorder the directories
- Uninstall, rename, or otherwise hide the older version of the *signtool.exe* tool
- Uninstall or update the software package that contains the tool, such as updating an older version of the Windows SDK

### Invalid thumbprint or certificate

If the thumbprint is invalid, it triggers a cryptographic error, and you might see the MSB3482 error. Check the string value for the `CertificateThumbprint` parameter to the `SignFile` task. The certificate thumbprint is the SHA-1 hash of the certificate. For more information, see [Obtain the SHA-1 hash of a trusted root CA certificate](/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2008-R2-and-2008/cc733076\(v\=ws.10\)). If you copy and paste the thumbprint from the certificate details, make sure you don't include the extra (`3F`) invisible character, which can prevent the `SignFile` task from finding the certificate.

Test certificates expire after a period of time. You might have to create a new certificate. For more information, see [Sign application and deployment manifests](../../ide/how-to-sign-application-and-deployment-manifests.md). For newer .NET projects in Visual Studio 2019 or later, see [Deploy a .NET Windows Desktop application using ClickOnce](../../deployment/quickstart-deploy-using-clickonce-folder.md).

When you run the program in a non-interactive environment, such as a script in a pipeline, you can create a certificate by using the command-line tool [certutil](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/certutil):

```cmd
certutil –f –p [certificate_password] –importpfx <path to pfx file>
```
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild