docs/msbuild/errors/msb3232.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3232 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3232 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3232
 - MSBuild.RemoveDir.EmptyPath
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3232 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3232 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3232: An empty directory was passed to RemoveDir and was ignored.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3232: An empty directory was passed to RemoveDir and was ignored. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3232: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3232.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3232 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3232 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3232
 - MSBuild.RemoveDir.EmptyPath
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3232 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3232 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3232: An empty directory was passed to RemoveDir and was ignored.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3232: An empty directory was passed to RemoveDir and was ignored. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3232: "}
-->
## Description

This warning occurs when MSBuild tries to remove a directory, but the directory provided to the `RemoveDir` task was an empty string. See [RemoveDir task](../removedir-task.md).

## Resolution

If you're using `RemoveDir` in your project code or your own imported MSBuild files, review the parameters for the `RemoveDir` task, and make sure they're correct. Check that any property values provided have been defined at the point of the call, and have the correct value.

To find the `RemoveDir` code that produces the error and debug its parameters, enable diagnostic logging (use the `-v:diag` command-line switch for MSBuild), or generate a binary log (use the `-bl` switch) and use the [MSBuild structured log viewer](https://msbuildlog.com).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
