docs/msbuild/errors/msb3482.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3482: An error occurred while signing"
description: "This error occurs when MSBuild encounters an error while trying to sign an output file."
ms.date: "08/15/2022"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3482
 - MSBuild.SignFile.SignToolError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3482

This error occurs when MSBuild encounters an error while trying to sign an output file when running the [SignFile task](../signfile-task.md).

The message resembles the following, but this text is followed by additional information from the signing tool:

```output
MSB3482: An error occurred while signing:
```

Check that the sign file exists.  

Make sure the signing tool is installed; it's installed with Visual Studio. Look to the additional information provided by the signing tool to see more about what happened.

If the thumbprint is invalid, it will trigger a cryptographic error, and you might see this error. Check the string value given as the `CertificateThumbprint` parameter to the `SignFile` task. The certificate thumbprint is the SHA-1 hash of the certificate. For more information, see [Obtain the SHA-1 hash of a trusted root CA certificate](/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2008-R2-and-2008/cc733076\(v\=ws.10\)). If you copy and paste the thumbprint from the certificate details, make sure you do not include the extra (3F) invisible character, which may prevent `SignFile` from finding the certificate.

Test certificates expire after a period of time. You might have to create a new one. See [How to: Sign application and deployment manifests](../../ide/how-to-sign-application-and-deployment-manifests.md) or for newer .NET projects in Visual Studio 2019 or later, see [Deploy a .NET Windows Desktop application using ClickOnce](../../deployment/quickstart-deploy-using-clickonce-folder.md).

When running in a non-interactive environment, such as a script in a pipeline, you can create a certificate by using the command-line tool [certutil](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/certutil).

```cmd
certutil –f –p [certificate_password] –importpfx <path to pfx file>
```

Commit message:

Add information about signtool.exe /fd option

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3482.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3482: An error occurred while signing"
description: "This error occurs when MSBuild encounters an error while trying to sign an output file."
ms.date: "08/15/2022"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3482
 - MSBuild.SignFile.SignToolError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3482

This error occurs when MSBuild encounters an error while trying to sign an output file when running the [SignFile task](../signfile-task.md).

The message resembles the following, but this text is followed by additional information from the signing tool:

```output
MSB3482: An error occurred while signing:
```

Check that the sign file exists.  

Make sure the signing tool is installed; it's installed with Visual Studio. Look to the additional information provided by the signing tool to see more about what happened.

If the error mentions an option that isn't supported, like the `/fd` option, it means you have an older version of *signtool.exe* that was found on the system, but MSBuild needs the newer version. The fix depends on your specific situation, but you might have to uninstall, rename, or otherwise hide the old *signtool.exe*, or uninstall or update the software package it's a part of, for example, update an old version of the Windows SDK.

If the thumbprint is invalid, it will trigger a cryptographic error, and you might see this error. Check the string value given as the `CertificateThumbprint` parameter to the `SignFile` task. The certificate thumbprint is the SHA-1 hash of the certificate. For more information, see [Obtain the SHA-1 hash of a trusted root CA certificate](/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2008-R2-and-2008/cc733076\(v\=ws.10\)). If you copy and paste the thumbprint from the certificate details, make sure you do not include the extra (3F) invisible character, which may prevent `SignFile` from finding the certificate.

Test certificates expire after a period of time. You might have to create a new one. See [How to: Sign application and deployment manifests](../../ide/how-to-sign-application-and-deployment-manifests.md) or for newer .NET projects in Visual Studio 2019 or later, see [Deploy a .NET Windows Desktop application using ClickOnce](../../deployment/quickstart-deploy-using-clickonce-folder.md).

When running in a non-interactive environment, such as a script in a pipeline, you can create a certificate by using the command-line tool [certutil](/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/certutil).

```cmd
certutil –f –p [certificate_password] –importpfx <path to pfx file>
```
