---
title: MSB3577 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3577 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4181
 - MSBuild.GenerateResource.DuplicateOutputFilenames
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3577 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3577 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB3577: Two output file names resolved to the same output path: "path".`

## Description

This error indicates the presence of a duplicate filename in the build output.

## Resolution

If you need more information to diagnose the error, enable diagnostic logging with the `-verbosity:diag` command-line switch, and then check the MSBuild log file with the full diagnostics output. For longer output logs on large projects, consider using the binary log `-bl` command-line switch with the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com/) to view the output more easily.

Check the file and try to determine why the build generates the file multiple times. Here are some points to investigate:

- Locate specific build processes that generate the file
- Identify duplicate steps in the build process that cause the file to regenerate
- Determine if the build process can rename file instances to avoid the collision

### Create unique filenames

The MSB3577 error occurs with resource files, especially in Visual Basic Windows Forms projects. You can edit your project file to specify `ManifestResourceName` metadata, which can help the `GenerateResource` task create a unique filename for each resource file. A simple example is shown in the following code:

```xml
<EmbeddedResource Include="MyResources.resx">
  <ManifestResourceName>CustomName</ManifestResourceName>
</EmbeddedResource>
```

You must ensure that the value specified as `CustomName` is different for each generated resource file.

In MSBuild 16.10 and later, you can use `TargetPath` metadata to disambiguate the duplicated path names:

```xml
<Content Include="Files\**">
  <Link>Files\%(Filename)%(Extension)</Link>
  <TargetPath>%(Filename)%(Extension)</TargetPath>
  <CopyToOutputDirectory>PreserveNewest</CopyToOutputDirectory>
</Content>
```

You don't need to add any extensions in Visual Studio to accomplish this task. The extension `.resources` is automatically applied.

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild