docs/msbuild/errors/msb3243.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3243: No way to resolve conflict between 'first assembly' and 'second assembly'. Choosing 'first assembly' arbitrarily."
description: "This diagnostic code is emitted when MSBuild finds two conflicting assemblies for a given reference, with no way to resolve the conflict."
ms.date: "08/15/2022"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3243
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.ConflictUnsolvable
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3243

This diagnostic code is emitted when MSBuild finds two conflicting assemblies for a given reference, with no way to resolve the conflict. In such cases, MSBuild chooses one of the assemblies arbitrarily and continues processing the build.

The message text resembles the following text:

```output
MSB3243: No way to resolve conflict between 'first assembly' and 'second assembly'. Choosing 'first assembly' arbitrarily.
```

A diagnostic build log will have more information about how the two conflicting assemblies were found which may help restructure your build to avoid the warning.

For a guide on resolving errors with assembly references, see [Troubleshoot assembly references](../troubleshoot-assembly-references.md).

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3243.md, after:

---
title: MSB3243 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3243 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3243
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.ConflictUnsolvable
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3243

This article describes the MSB3243 error code.

## Message text

`MSB3243: No way to resolve conflict between 'first assembly' and 'second assembly'. Choosing 'first assembly' arbitrarily.`

## Description

This diagnostic code is emitted when MSBuild finds two conflicting assemblies for a given reference, with no way to resolve the conflict. In such cases, MSBuild chooses one of the assemblies arbitrarily and continues processing the build.

## Resolution

A diagnostic build log has more information about how the two conflicting assemblies were found. The log information might help you to restructure your build to avoid the warning.

For a guide on resolving errors with assembly references, see [Troubleshoot assembly references](../troubleshoot-assembly-references.md).

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
