---
title: "MSB3941 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3941 MSBuild error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 4/17/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3941
 - MSBuild.ZipDirectory.ErrorDirectoryDoesNotExist
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3941 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3941 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB3941: Failed to zip directory 'path' because it does not exist or is inaccessible.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3941: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when your project uses the [`ZipDirectory` task](../zipdirectory-task.md), which takes an input directory and produces a compressed ZIP file, but the input directory could not be found or accessed.

## Resolution

You can use the `-v:diag` switch on the MSBuild command line to get more detailed information about the MSBuild execution, such as the values of the input parameters provided to the `ZipDirectory` task. In Visual Studio, in **Tools, Options, Build and Run**, set **Verbosity** to **Diagnostic**.

Check the spelling and syntax of the input parameters of the ZipDirectory task, which might be called from your project file (it is not called by the MSBuild, C++, or .NET SDK build system), a file that your project imports. Verify that the folder exists and allows read permissions. If your `ZipDirectory` task uses a property value or environment variable in its input, check that the property or environment variable has the expected value. If the property comes from a command line, check the command line for any syntax issues, mismatched quotes, or special shell characters.

Check that the directory allows `Read` permissions to the process that runs MSBuild.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
