docs/msbuild/errors/msb3271.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3271"
description: "There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built 'project' and the processor architecture, 'architecture', of the implementation file 'filename' for 'WinMD file'. This mismatch may cause runtime failures. Please consider changing the targeted processor architecture of your project through the Configuration Manager so as to align the processor architectures between your project and implementation file, or choose a winmd file with an implementation file that has a processor architecture which matches the targeted processor architecture of your project."
ms.date: "04/28/2022"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3271
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.MismatchBetweenTargetedAndReferencedArchOfImplementation
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3271

The complete error is similar to the following text:

```
There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built "project" and the processor architecture, "architecture", of the implementation file "filename" for "WinMD file". This mismatch may cause runtime failures. Please consider changing the targeted processor architecture of your project through the Configuration Manager so as to align the processor architectures between your project and implementation file, or choose a winmd file with an implementation file that has a processor architecture which matches the targeted processor architecture of your project.
```

The WinMD file is the Windows Metadata file, which contains type information for UWP or WinRT applications that enables language projection. See [WinMD files](/uwp/winrt-cref/winmd-files).

If you can, follow the advice in the error text and change the processor architecture as suggested, either in the Configuration Manager in Visual Studio, or in the project file.

In some cases, you can ensure in your own code that the dependent assembly is not loaded in a context that would create a compatibility conflict, and you might want to change this error into a warning. You can do that by setting the property `ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch` to `Warning` or `None`.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
   <!-- other property settings -->
   <ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>None</ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>
</PropertyGroup>
```

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3271.md, after:

---
title: MSB3271 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3271 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3271
 - MSBuild.ResolveAssemblyReference.MismatchBetweenTargetedAndReferencedArchOfImplementation
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3271

This article describes the MSB3271 error code.

## Message text

`There was a mismatch between the processor architecture of the project being built "project" and the processor architecture, "architecture", of the implementation file "filename" for "WinMD file". This mismatch may cause runtime failures. Please consider changing the targeted processor architecture of your project through the Configuration Manager so as to align the processor architectures between your project and implementation file, or choose a winmd file with an implementation file that has a processor architecture which matches the targeted processor architecture of your project.`

## Description

The WinMD file is the Windows Metadata file, which contains type information for UWP or WinRT applications that enables language projection. For more information, see [WinMD files](/uwp/winrt-cref/winmd-files).

## Resolution

If you can, follow the advice in the error text and change the processor architecture as suggested, either in the Configuration Manager in Visual Studio, or in the project file.

In some cases, you can ensure in your own code that the dependent assembly isn't loaded in a context that can create a compatibility conflict. You might want to change this error into a warning. You can make the change by setting the property `ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch` to `Warning` or `None`.

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
   <!-- other property settings -->
   <ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>None</ResolveAssemblyWarnOrErrorOnTargetArchitectureMismatch>
</PropertyGroup>
```

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
