docs/msbuild/errors/msb3190.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3190: ClickOnce does not support the request execution level 'level'"
description: "This error occurs when an *app.manifest* included in the project does not have UAC Execution level set to `asInvoker` (which ClickOnce requires)."
ms.date: "07/22/2021"
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3190
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.InvalidRequestedExecutionLevel
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3190: ClickOnce does not support the request execution level 'level'

This error occurs when an *app.manifest* included in the project does not have UAC Execution level set to `asInvoker` (which ClickOnce requires).

To resolve this error, make sure you have the following in *app.manifest* under the `trustInfo` settings:

```xml
  <trustInfo xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v2"> 
    <security>
      <requestedPrivileges xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v3">
        <requestedExecutionLevel level="asInvoker" />
      </requestedPrivileges>
    </security>
  </trustInfo>
<requestedExecutionLevel level="asInvoker" uiAccess="false" />
```

See [requestedExecutionLevel](../../deployment/trustinfo-element-clickonce-application.md#requestedexecutionlevel).

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3190.md, after:

---
title: MSB3190 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3190 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3190
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.InvalidRequestedExecutionLevel
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3190

This article describes the MSB3190 error code.

## Message text

`ClickOnce does not support the request execution level 'level'`

## Description

This error occurs when an *app.manifest* file included in the project doesn't have UAC Execution level set to `asInvoker` (which ClickOnce requires).

## Resolution

To resolve this error, make sure you have the following definition in the *app.manifest* file under the `trustInfo` settings:

```xml
  <trustInfo xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v2"> 
    <security>
      <requestedPrivileges xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v3">
        <requestedExecutionLevel level="asInvoker" />
      </requestedPrivileges>
    </security>
  </trustInfo>
<requestedExecutionLevel level="asInvoker" uiAccess="false" />
```

For more information, see [requestedExecutionLevel](../../deployment/trustinfo-element-clickonce-application.md#requestedexecutionlevel).

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
