---
title: MSB3073 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3073 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3073
 - MSBuild.Exec.CommandFailed
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3073 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3073 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3073: The command 'value' exited with code 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3073: The command "{0}" exited with code {1}. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This diagnostic code is emitted when an executable exited with an error code, or emitted an error in the expected format. Specifically, the MSBuild [Exec task](../exec-task.md) encountered an error condition in the executable it was trying to run.

The meaning of the return code is specific to the executable that was being run. Refer to the documentation for the tool for the interpretation of a non-zero exit code. If you get this error and the exit code is zero, it's because the output contained text that was interpreted as an error because the `Exec` task was invoked with the `CustomErrorRegularExpression` set to a string that matched something in the tool's output.

## Resolution

Look to the output of the command to determine the root cause of the failure. If logging was enabled in the build, the output might be written to the build log.

To diagnose the error, first enable a diagnostic log (use the `-verbosity:diag` command-line switch), and check the MSBuild log file with the full diagnostics output. For bigger output logs on large projects, consider using the binary log (`-bl` command-line switch) and the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com/) to view the output more easily.

You can also set the `MSBuildDebugEngine` environment variable to 1 to get all possible logs. See [Building MSBuild for the .NET Framework - Logs](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild/blob/main/documentation/wiki/Building-Testing-and-Debugging-on-Full-Framework-MSBuild.md#logs).

It might be helpful to reproduce the error in isolation. Try running the tool separately with the same inputs and command-line arguments that MSBuild used in the build. If symbols are available and you have a Debug build of the tool, you can try attaching a debugger to the tool and debug the tool itself to see what the problem is.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild