docs/msbuild/errors/msb3217.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3217 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3217 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3217
 - MSBuild.RegisterAssembly.CantRegisterAssembly
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3217 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3217 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3217: Cannot register assembly 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3217: Cannot register assembly "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3217: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3217.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3217 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3217 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3217
 - MSBuild.RegisterAssembly.CantRegisterAssembly
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3217 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3217 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3217: Cannot register assembly 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3217: Cannot register assembly "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3217: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs in the [RegisterAssembly task](../registerassembly-task.md) when, for any reason, the assembly could not be registered as a COM object. The error is followed by information from Windows with more details about the issue.

## Resolution

This error occurs for a wide variety of causes that result in a failure to register an assembly. Registering a COM object requires that the account that runs MSBuild has admin permissions on the machine.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
