docs/msbuild/errors/msb3202.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3202: The project file 'filename' was not found."
description: "This error occurs when MSBuild can't find a project file with the specified name at the expected location."
ms.date: 1/21/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3202
 - MSBuild.ProjectFileNotFound
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3202

This error occurs when MSBuild can't find a project file with the specified name at the expected location.

The full message is something like the following text:

```output
MSB3202: The project file 'filename' was not found.
```

## Remarks

The MSB3202 error occurs when MSBuild is unable to locate the specified project file. This error is generated when a build is invoked with an incorrect or missing project file path, or incorrect or missing dependent project file.

## Common causes

Here are some real-world scenarios that can lead to this error, especially in modern development and CI/CD environments:

1. **Incorrect file path in command line or build script**
   - When invoking MSBuild, the specified project file path doesn't exist or is mistyped. Check the path, especially for syntax issues such as quotes around paths with spaces.

2. **Project file renamed or deleted**
   - A project file was renamed or removed from the repository, but the build logic or one of the build inputs was not updated to reflect this change.

3. **Repository checkout issues**
   - During a CI/CD pipeline execution, the source code repository might not be fully checked out, or the necessary project file is excluded due to `.gitignore` rules or shallow cloning.

## Resolution

1. Verify that the project file exists at the specified location.
   - Use an absolute path to the project file to avoid ambiguity.
   - Example:

     `msbuild C:\Projects\MySolution\MyProject.csproj`

2. Check for typos in the ProjectReference item in the project file.

3. Ensure your version control system includes all necessary project files and that the repository checkout is complete.

Commit message:

410544 - MSBuild error article updates  (#13819)
* update articles for collection consistency

* updates to help with merge conflicts

* edits

* update article for collection consistency

* undo edits

* undo edits

* undo edits

* correct code number

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3202.md, after:

---
title: MSB3202 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3202 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/15/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3202
 - MSBuild.ProjectFileNotFound
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB3202

This article describes the MSB3202 error code.

## Message text

`MSB3202: The project file 'filename' was not found.`

## Description

The MSB3202 error occurs when MSBuild is unable to locate the specified project file. This error is generated when a build is invoked with an incorrect or missing project file path, or incorrect or missing dependent project file.

### Real-world scenarios

Here are some real-world scenarios that can produce this error, especially in modern development and CI/CD environments:

- **Incorrect file path in command line or build script**: When you invoke MSBuild, the specified project file path doesn't exist or is mistyped.

- **Project file renamed or deleted**: A project file was renamed or removed from the repository, but the build logic or one of the build inputs isn't updated to reflect the change.

- **Repository checkout issues**: During a CI/CD pipeline execution, the source code repository might not be fully checked out, or the necessary project file is excluded due to `.gitignore` rules or shallow cloning.

## Resolution

- Verify the project file exists at the specified location. Avoid ambiguity by using an absolute path to the project file, such as `msbuild C:\Projects\MySolution\MyProject.csproj`.

- Check for typos in the `ProjectReference` item in the project file. Confirm the path has no syntax issues like missing quotes for paths that include spaces.

- Ensure your version control system includes all necessary project files and the repository checkout is complete.

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
