docs/msbuild/errors/msb3052.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3052 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3052 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3052
 - MSBuild.Csc.InvalidParameterWarning
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3052 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3052 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3052: The parameter to the compiler is invalid, ''value''value'' will be ignored.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3052: The parameter to the compiler is invalid, '{0}{1}' will be ignored. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3052: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3052.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3052 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3052 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3052
 - MSBuild.Csc.InvalidParameterWarning
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3052 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3052 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3052: The parameter to the compiler is invalid, ''value''value'' will be ignored.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3052: The parameter to the compiler is invalid, '{0}{1}' will be ignored. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3052: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when a command-line input to the [`Csc` task](../csc-task.md) was incorrectly specified, perhaps due to a syntax error, incorrect shell escape character, or missing or incorrect environment variable or property value.

## Resolution

Use verbose diagnostics (`-v:diag`), or generate a binary log and use the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com) to get complete information on the parameters to the `Csc` task that generated this error.

Check syntax and logic involved in the construction of `Csc` parameter values, including the behavior of escape characters or special characters. Check the values of relevant environment variables and property values that are used to construct the parameters to the `Csc` task. Especially check that variables using MSBuild property syntax, such as `$(PROPERTY_NAME)` are resolved, and not passed as literal strings to the compiler.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
