---
title: "MSB3501 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3501 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 11f/20/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3501
 - MSBuild.ReadLinesFromFile.ErrorOrWarning
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3501 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3501 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3501: Could not read lines from file 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3501: Could not read lines from file "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3501: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when your project is using the [`ReadLinesFromFile` task](../readlinesfromfile-task.md), but the specified file wasn't found.

## Resolution

Check the input to the `ReadLinesFromFile` task. You can use the `-v:diag` switch on the MSBuild command line to get more detailed information about the MSBuild execution, such as the values of the input parameters provided to the `ReadLinesFromFile` task. The related diagnostic verbosity settings can be configured in the Visual Studio IDE.

:::moniker range="visualstudio"

In the **Tools** > **Options** pane, expand the **All Settings** > **Projects and Solutions** > **Build and Run** section, and set the **MSBuild project build output verbosity** and **MSBuild project build log file verbosity** options to **Diagnostic**.

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range="<=vs-2022"
      
In the **Tools** > **Options** dialog, expand the **Projects and Solutions** > **Build and Run** section, and set the **MSBuild project build output verbosity** and **MSBuild project build log file verbosity** options to **Diagnostic**.

:::moniker-end

If the input comes from a property value, check that the property has a value. If it comes from a property set at the command line, check that the syntax of the command line and the value of the environment variable are correct; especially check shell escape characters and ensure proper use of quotes, especially the need for quotes when providing filenames with spaces in the path. If the input file comes from an environment variable, check the spelling of the environment value and verify that it has the expected value.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
