docs/msbuild/errors/msb3097.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3097 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3097 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3097
 - MSBuild.General.InvalidAssembly
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3097 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3097 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3097: File 'value' is not a valid assembly.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3097: File "{0}" is not a valid assembly. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3097: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3097.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3097 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3097 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3097
 - MSBuild.General.InvalidAssembly
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3097 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3097 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3097: File 'filename' is not a valid assembly.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3097: File "{0}" is not a valid assembly. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3097: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild tries to register an assembly for COM, but it failed.

## Resolution

Check the assembly mentioned in the error text to see if it built correctly and it's registerable for COM. Try registering it from the command-line using the command-line tools, [regasm.exe](/dotnet/framework/tools/regasm-exe-assembly-registration-tool) to see if it gives an error message that gives information about the problem.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
