docs/msbuild/errors/msb3171.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3171 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3171 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3171
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.General
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3171 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3171 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3171: Problem generating manifest.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3171: Problem generating manifest. {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3171: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3171.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3171 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3171 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3171
 - MSBuild.GenerateManifest.General
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3171 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3171 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3171: Problem generating manifest.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3171: Problem generating manifest. {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3171: "}
-->
## Description

This error is a generic error that you get when MSBuild is unable to provide a more specific error about the exact problem that occurred when trying to generate a manifest.

## Resolution

Try running with verbose diagnostics (`-v:diag` on the MSBuild command line), and check everything related to signing the assembly, and the ClickOnce manifest generation. In Visual Studio, go to Project Properties (press **Alt**+**Enter**), and check the **Strong naming** settings under the **Build** section. Verify the correctness of any information provided, such as the key file. On Windows, type **certmgr.msc** in the search section of the taskbar to open the certificate management console. Check any relevant certificates in the certificate store on the machine.

You can also generate a binary log using the `-bl` option, and use the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com) to get more details about what was happening in the build process before the error occurred.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
