docs/msbuild/errors/msb3331.md, before:

---
title: "MSB3331 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3331 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3331
 - MSBuild.ResolveManifestFiles.PublishFileNotFound
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3331 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3331 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3331: Unable to apply publish properties for item 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3331: Unable to apply publish properties for item "{0}". -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3331: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb3331.md, after:

---
title: "MSB3331 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB3331 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB3331
 - MSBuild.ResolveManifestFiles.PublishFileNotFound
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB3331 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB3331 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB3331: Unable to apply publish properties for item 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB3331: Unable to apply publish properties for item "{0}". -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB3331: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs in the [ResolveManifest task](../resolvemanifestfiles-task.md), which collects all the information, artifacts, and resources to generate a ClickOnce manifest. The error occurs when there's a problem with something that was required for the manifest generation.

## Resolution

Turn on verbose diagnostics (`-v:diag`), or generate a binary log and view it in the [Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com). Find the place in the log where the `ResolveManifest` task is invoked. Check the input to the     `ResolveManifest` task and verify the correctness and validity of all the inputs.

If you changed the publishing settings in Visual Studio, review them for errors. In .NET Framework projects, go to **Project Properties** > **Publish** > **Application Files**, and review the settings. Try selecting the **Reset All** button to see if the project builds and publishes with default settings.

For more information, see [Specify files to publish](../deployment/how-to-specify-which-files-are-published-by-clickonce.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
