docs/msbuild/errors/msb4023.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4023 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4023 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4023
 - MSBuild.CannotEvaluateItemMetadata
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4023 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4023 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4023: Cannot evaluate the item metadata 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4023: Cannot evaluate the item metadata "%({0})". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4023: "}UE: This message is shown when the value of an item metadata cannot be computed for some reason e.g. trying to apply
    %(RootDir) to an item-spec that's not a valid path, would result in this error.
    LOCALIZATION: "{1}" is a localized message explaining the problem.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4023.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4023 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4023 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4023
 - MSBuild.CannotEvaluateItemMetadata
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4023 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4023 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4023: Cannot evaluate the item metadata 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4023: Cannot evaluate the item metadata "%({0})". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4023: "}UE: This message is shown when the value of an item metadata cannot be computed for some reason e.g. trying to apply
    %(RootDir) to an item-spec that's not a valid path, would result in this error.
    LOCALIZATION: "{1}" is a localized message explaining the problem.
-->
## Description

This error occurs when the value of an item metadata can't be computed, usually because the item wasn't a file or path, but the metadata only applies to files or paths. For example, this error occurs if you try to invoke the `%(RootDir)` metadata, but the item is not a path.

## Resolution

Review the build logic in the project file or one of its imported where the error occurred. Check that the item in the expression that causes this error is valid and set correctly, or remove the use of that metadata. Refer to the documentation for the metadata at [MSBuild well-known item metadata](../msbuild-well-known-item-metadata.md).

To help debug the issue, generate a diagnostic log (use the `-v:diag` MSBuild command-line option), or generate a binary log (`-bl` command-line option) and use the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
