docs/msbuild/errors/msb4246.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4246 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4246 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4246
 - MSBuild.SdkResolverNoDllOrManifest
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4246 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4246 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4246: SDK Resolver folder exists but without an SDK Resolver DLL or manifest file. This may indicate a corrupt or invalid installation of MSBuild. SDK resolver path:`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4246: SDK Resolver folder exists but without an SDK Resolver DLL or manifest file. This may indicate a corrupt or invalid installation of MSBuild. SDK resolver path: {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4246: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4246.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4246 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4246 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4246
 - MSBuild.SdkResolverNoDllOrManifest
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4246 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4246 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4246: SDK Resolver folder exists but without an SDK Resolver DLL or manifest file. This may indicate a corrupt or invalid installation of MSBuild. SDK resolver path:`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4246: SDK Resolver folder exists but without an SDK Resolver DLL or manifest file. This may indicate a corrupt or invalid installation of MSBuild. SDK resolver path: {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4246: "}
-->
## Description

Modern MSBuild project files reference a project SDK by using the `Sdk` attribute. See [Project SDKs](../how-to-use-project-sdk.md) To resolve the attribute value, MSBuild uses the SDK Resolver. If the resolver assemblies are not found in the expected installation folders, you get this error.

## Resolution

Reinstall MSBuild or the .NET SDK, or repair your installation of Visual Studio. See [Repair Visual Studio](../../install/repair-visual-studio.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
