docs/msbuild/errors/msb4252.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4252 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4252 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4252
 - MSBuild.CacheMissesNotAllowedInIsolatedGraphBuilds
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4252 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4252 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4252: Project 'value' with global properties
    ('value')
    is building project 'value' with global properties
    ('value')
    with the ('value') target(s) but the build result for the built project is not in the engine cache. In isolated builds this could mean one of the following:
    - the reference was called with a target which is not specified in the ProjectReferenceTargets item in project 'value'
    - the reference was called with global properties that do not match the static graph inferred nodes
    - the reference was not explicitly specified as a ProjectReference item in project 'value'`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4252: Project "{0}" with global properties
    ({1})
    is building project "{2}" with global properties
    ({3})
    with the ({4}) target(s) but the build result for the built project is not in the engine cache. In isolated builds this could mean one of the following:
    - the reference was called with a target which is not specified in the ProjectReferenceTargets item in project "{0}"
    - the reference was called with global properties that do not match the static graph inferred nodes
    - the reference was not explicitly specified as a ProjectReference item in project "{0}" -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4252:"}
      LOCALIZATION: Do not localize the following words: ProjectReference, ProjectReferenceTargets
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4252.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4252 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4252 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4252
 - MSBuild.CacheMissesNotAllowedInIsolatedGraphBuilds
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4252 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4252 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4252: Project 'value' with global properties
    ('value')
    is building project 'value' with global properties
    ('value')
    with the ('value') target(s) but the build result for the built project is not in the engine cache. In isolated builds this could mean one of the following:
    - the reference was called with a target which is not specified in the ProjectReferenceTargets item in project 'value'
    - the reference was called with global properties that do not match the static graph inferred nodes
    - the reference was not explicitly specified as a ProjectReference item in project 'value'`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4252: Project "{0}" with global properties
    ({1})
    is building project "{2}" with global properties
    ({3})
    with the ({4}) target(s) but the build result for the built project is not in the engine cache. In isolated builds this could mean one of the following:
    - the reference was called with a target which is not specified in the ProjectReferenceTargets item in project "{0}"
    - the reference was called with global properties that do not match the static graph inferred nodes
    - the reference was not explicitly specified as a ProjectReference item in project "{0}" -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4252:"}
      LOCALIZATION: Do not localize the following words: ProjectReference, ProjectReferenceTargets
-->
## Description

Isolated mode, enabled by the `-isolateProjects` switch that can be used with the `-graphBuild` switch, enforces strict isolation between project builds. It only applies to [graph builds](../build-process-overview.md#graph-option).

This error occurs when you're doing a graph build in isolated mode, but a situation was encountered that couldn't be resolved under the constraints of isolated mode. Isolated mode relies on being able to traverse the project dependencies statically, before the build starts. However, certain constructs that are allowed in MSBuild project files violate this constraint, and if they're encountered, this error is given.

## Resolution

Not all projects support isolated mode. The error text gives several condition that, if present, mean a project can't be built in isolated mode. If you encounter this error and don't require isolated mode, remove the `-isolateProjects` command-line option.

If the projects mentioned in the error message are under your control, determine which of the mentioned cases are relevant to your situation, and make appropriate changes to the references to avoid the violations.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
