---
title: MSB4175 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4175 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4175
 - MSBuild.TaskFactoryLoadFailure
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB4175 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4175 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4175: The task factory 'value' could not be loaded from the assembly 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4175: The task factory "{0}" could not be loaded from the assembly "{1}". {2} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild encounters a problem during the creation of a task by using a task factory. The output message might describe a second error that can provide more information about the cause of the failure.

When MSBuild processes a `UsingTask` task, a task factory builds an instance of a task which is then invoked. Typically, an assembly or DLL is used. The task might also be created dynamically from code with the `CodeTaskFactory` and `RoslynTaskFactory` tasks, for example. The task might also be created from XAML, such as by using the `XamlTaskFactory` task.

Common causes for this error include:

- The task assembly can't load due to possible errors in the path or insufficient permissions on the file.
- A coding error exists in the code used to dynamically create the task. The compiler error is listed as the second error.

## Resolution

Look to the extra error information provided to determine the cause of the problem. As applicable, investigate any reported compiler errors.

Confirm the task assembly can load. Verify the file path is accurate and the file permissions allow sufficient access.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild