docs/msbuild/errors/msb4278.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4278 diagnostic code"
description: "The imported file 'filename' does not exist and appears to be part of a Visual Studio component. This file may require MSBuild.exe in order to be imported successfully, and so may fail to build in the dotnet CLI."
ms.date: 2/6/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4278
 - MSBuild.ImportedProjectFromVSDistribution
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4278 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4278 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB4278: The imported file 'value' does not exist and appears to be part of a Visual Studio component. This file may require MSBuild.exe in order to be imported successfully, and so may fail to build in the dotnet CLI.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Remarks

This error occurs when you're using `dotnet build` and trying to import a file, but the imported file requires the Visual Studio build files, which `dotnet build` doesn't have access to. For example, this occurs when you try to build an older project that isn't an SDK-style project (it doesn't have the `Sdk` attribute on the `Project` element) with `dotnet build`. The `dotnet build` command can only build SDK-style projects. See [Use MSBuild project SDKs](../how-to-use-project-sdk.md).

This error can also occur if you try to build a C++ project (`.vcxproj`) with `dotnet build`.

## Resolution

Use `MSBuild.exe` or Visual Studio to build the project. Check that Visual Studio is installed on the build machine.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

mention workload must be installed

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4278.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4278 diagnostic code"
description: "The imported file 'filename' does not exist and appears to be part of a Visual Studio component. This file may require MSBuild.exe in order to be imported successfully, and so may fail to build in the dotnet CLI."
ms.date: 2/6/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4278
 - MSBuild.ImportedProjectFromVSDistribution
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4278 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4278 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

```output
MSB4278: The imported file 'value' does not exist and appears to be part of a Visual Studio component. This file may require MSBuild.exe in order to be imported successfully, and so may fail to build in the dotnet CLI.
```

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Remarks

This error occurs when you're using `dotnet build` and trying to import a file, but the imported file requires the Visual Studio build files, which `dotnet build` doesn't have access to. For example, this occurs when you try to build an older project that isn't an SDK-style project (it doesn't have the `Sdk` attribute on the `Project` element) with `dotnet build`. The `dotnet build` command can only build SDK-style projects. See [Use MSBuild project SDKs](../how-to-use-project-sdk.md).

This error can also occur if you try to build a C++ project (`.vcxproj`) with `dotnet build`.

## Resolution

Use `MSBuild.exe` or Visual Studio to build the project. Check that Visual Studio is installed on the build machine, and that you have the **.NET Desktop development** workload installed.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
