---
title: "MSB4232 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4232 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 11/20/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4232
 - MSBuild.IncludeRemoveOrUpdate
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4232 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4232 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4232: Items that are outside Target elements must have one of the following operations: Include, Update, or Remove.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4232: Items that are outside Target elements must have one of the following operations: Include, Update, or Remove. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

MSBuild items are lists whose contents are determined by the use of the attributes `Include` (add specific items to the list), `Exclude` (don't add certain items), `Update` (update item metadata), and `Remove` (remove one or more items from the list). See [MSBuild items](../msbuild-items.md).

MSBuild items outside of targets are expected to be defined and populated; therefore at least one of `Include`, `Update`, or `Remove` is expected to be used. However, inside of a target, items are expected to be already defined and populated, so it's not an error to omit these attributes within a target. In a target, when neither `Include` nor `Remove` is specified, MSBuild performs an update operation.

## Resolution

Check the item declaration and determine the correct logic for it. Look at the places in your project file where the item is first defined and populated, and verify correctness. If the intention is to work with an item that's defined previously, consider placing the operation on that item inside a target. Inside a target, if you don't specify `Include` or `Remove`, the operation is assumed to be an update.

To get more information, enable verbose diagnostics with the `-v:diag` flag at the MSBuild command line. You can configure the related diagnostic verbosity settings in the Visual Studio IDE. 

:::moniker range="visualstudio"

In the **Tools** > **Options** pane, expand the **All Settings** > **Projects and Solutions** > **Build and Run** section, and set the **MSBuild project build output verbosity** and **MSBuild project build log file verbosity** options to **Diagnostic**. For more information, see [View, save, and configure build log files](../../ide/how-to-view-save-and-configure-build-log-files.md#specify-data-verbosity-for-build-logs).

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range="<=vs-2022"
      
The related diagnostic verbosity settings can be configured in the Visual Studio IDE. In the **Tools** > **Options** dialog, expand the **Projects and Solutions** > **Build and Run** section, and set the **MSBuild project build output verbosity** and **MSBuild project build log file verbosity** options to **Diagnostic**. For more information, see [View, save, and configure build log files](../../ide/how-to-view-save-and-configure-build-log-files.md#specify-data-verbosity-for-build-logs).

:::moniker-end

Another approach is to enable the binary logger (`-bl`) and use the [MSBuild structured log viewer](https://msbuildlog.com).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
