docs/msbuild/errors/msb4185.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4185 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4185 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4185
 - MSBuild.InvalidFunctionMethodUnavailable
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4185 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4185 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4185: The function 'value' on type 'value' is not available for execution as an MSBuild property function.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4185: The function "{0}" on type "{1}" is not available for execution as an MSBuild property function. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4185: "}
      UE: This message is shown when the user attempts to provide an expression like "$([System.DateTime]::Now)", but the expression has not been enabled
      LOCALIZATION: "{0}" is the static function name, "{1}" is the .NET Framework type name
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4185.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4185 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4185 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4185
 - MSBuild.InvalidFunctionMethodUnavailable
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4185 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4185 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4185: The function 'value' on type 'value' is not available for execution as an MSBuild property function.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4185: The function "{0}" on type "{1}" is not available for execution as an MSBuild property function. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4185: "}
      UE: This message is shown when the user attempts to provide an expression like "$([System.DateTime]::Now)", but the expression has not been enabled
      LOCALIZATION: "{0}" is the static function name, "{1}" is the .NET Framework type name
-->
## Description

This error occurs when a [property function](../property-functions.md) is used that is not supported by MSBuild.

## Resolution

First, check for typos or misspellings in the property function mentioned in the error message.

The problem could occur if the project is using functionality that was added in a newer version of MSBuild, but you're building with an older version. Install the latest version of Visual Studio or MSBuild and try building again. See [Install Visual Studio](../../install/install-visual-studio.md) and [MSBuild - Install MSBuild](../msbuild.md#install-msbuild).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
