docs/msbuild/errors/msb4020.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4020 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4020 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4020
 - MSBuild.InvalidAttributeValue
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4020 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4020 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4020: The value 'value' of the 'value' attribute in element 'value' is invalid.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4020: The value "{0}" of the "{1}" attribute in element <{2}> is invalid. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4020: "}UE: This is a generic message that is displayed when we find a project element with an incorrect value for one of its
    attributes e.g. <Import Project=""> -- the value of Project should not be an empty string.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4020.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4020 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4020 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4020
 - MSBuild.InvalidAttributeValue
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4020 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4020 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4020: The value 'value' of the 'value' attribute in element 'value' is invalid.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4020: The value "{0}" of the "{1}" attribute in element <{2}> is invalid. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4020: "}UE: This is a generic message that is displayed when we find a project element with an incorrect value for one of its
    attributes e.g. <Import Project=""> -- the value of Project should not be an empty string.
-->
## Description

This error occurs when a project element has an incorrect value for one of its attributes. For example, an `Import` element with an empty string for the Project.

```xml
<Import Project="">
```

## Resolution

Check the attribute and value referenced in the text of the error message. If the values provided are determined by properties, ensure that the properties are defined and have the correct values.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
