---
title: "MSB4063 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of MSB4063 build error and get troubleshooting tips to resolve it.
ms.date: 3/25/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4063
 - MSBuild.TaskParametersError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4063 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4063 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB4063: The 'task name' task could not be initialized with its input parameters.`

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4063: "}
-->
## Remarks

This error occurs when MSBuild is loading a task, but there's some problem with the task parameters. It usually appears after another error, which is the underlying problem, so fixing the problem that causes the previous error often fixes this error, too.

## Resolution

If the task given in the error message is one you specifically invoked in your own code, check the code in the target where that task is invoked, and refer to the documentation for that task to see what parameters are required and optional, and the correct spelling of them. Values for all required task parameters must be given as attributes in the task invocation:

`<task-name> param1="value1" param2="value2"/>`

If the task isn't directly called by your own project or any of your imported files (such as `.targets` files), then it might be generated in the system targets. System targets, like `Microsoft.Common.targets` are imported implicitly when you specify an SDK by using the `Sdk` attribute on the project element, or in some project files, they might be explicitly imported. You could have a mismatch between a version of the task assembly that was previously loaded in memory, and the one that the system expects. This problem could occur if there's an installation problem that causes a version conflict. Reinstalling the build tools, the .NET SDK, or Visual Studio, might solve the problem. It could also happen in rare instances if MSBuild finds an incompatible version of the task assembly in memory from another build process. Try rebooting the machine and rerunning the same build.

See [MSBuild tasks](../msbuild-tasks.md).
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
