---
title: MSB4181 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4181 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4181
 - MSBuild.TaskReturnedFalseButDidNotLogError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB4181 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4181 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4181: The 'value' task returned false but did not log an error.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4181: The "{0}" task returned false but did not log an error. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error occurs when a task returns `false` to signal that it didn't complete successfully and also didn't log an error. If you see this error, it means the task failed, but there's no report with specific error information available.

## Resolution

First, enable a diagnostic log by using the `-verbosity:diag` command-line switch, and then check the MSBuild log file with the full diagnostics output. For longer output logs on large projects, consider using the binary log `-bl` command-line switch with the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com/) to view the output more easily. 

You can also set the `MSBuildDebugEngine` environment variable to 1 to get all possible logs. For more information, see [Building MSBuild for the .NET Framework - Logs](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild/blob/main/documentation/wiki/Building-Testing-and-Debugging-on-Full-Framework-MSBuild.md#logs).

If the task ran an executable, try running the executable separately with the same inputs and command line.

If you know the owner of the task, consider reporting this issue to the task owner and recommending that they modify the task to log more information.

If it's a custom task and you're the task owner, consider improving the error logging. For example, if an API you're calling might throw an exception, add an exception handler to log the exception message.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild