docs/msbuild/errors/msb4068.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4068 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4068 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4068
 - MSBuild.UnrecognizedElement
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4068 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4068 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4068: The element 'value' is unrecognized, or not supported in this context.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4068: The element <{0}> is unrecognized, or not supported in this context. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4068: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4068.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4068 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4068 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4068
 - MSBuild.UnrecognizedElement
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4068 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4068 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4068: The element 'value' is unrecognized, or not supported in this context.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4068: The element <{0}> is unrecognized, or not supported in this context. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4068: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild is given an XML file to build, but the file isn't a project file. Specifically, MSBuild looks for the top-level `Project` XML element to see if it can process the input file as a valid project file, and if it doesn't find it, you get this error. The error text gives the name of whatever top-level element that was found.

## Resolution

Check the file that was provided. Note that the file MSBuild tries to build might be found automatically. For example, if you invoke MSBuild in a project folder, it tries to find the project file or a solution file in that folder. 

If you were using a tool that runs MSBuild, such as `dotnet pack`, check its documentation to ensure it is being invoked correctly. For example, if you invoke `dotnet pack` with a `.nuspec` file, which uses a different XML schema, the error references the `package` element found in those files.

If the provided file is a project file, check for any spelling or syntax errors in or near the top-level `Project` element.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
