docs/msbuild/errors/msb4027.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4027 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4027 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4027
 - MSBuild.InvalidTaskItemsInTaskOutputs
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4027 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4027 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4027: The 'value' task generated invalid items from the 'value' output parameter.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4027: The "{0}" task generated invalid items from the "{1}" output parameter. {2} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4027: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4027.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4027 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4027 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4027
 - MSBuild.InvalidTaskItemsInTaskOutputs
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4027 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4027 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4027: The 'value' task generated invalid items from the 'value' output parameter.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4027: The "{0}" task generated invalid items from the "{1}" output parameter. {2} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4027: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when there's a problem with the specified output item returned from an MSBuild task. MSBuild tasks may be system tasks, or custom tasks. System tasks shouldn't produce this error, but a custom task could produce this error if there's a logic problem in the task implementation, such as a type conversion that fails.

## Remarks

If the task given in the error message is one your own custom task, you can debug the task to see why it's returning invalid items for the specified output parameter.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
