docs/msbuild/errors/msb4244.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4244 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4244 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4244
 - MSBuild.CouldNotLoadSdkResolverAssembly
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4244 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4244 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4244: The SDK resolver assembly 'value' could not be loaded.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4244: The SDK resolver assembly "{0}" could not be loaded. {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4244: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4244.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4244 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4244 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4244
 - MSBuild.CouldNotLoadSdkResolverAssembly
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4244 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4244 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4244: The SDK resolver assembly 'assembly-name' could not be loaded.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4244: The SDK resolver assembly "{0}" could not be loaded. {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4244: "}
-->
## Description

An SDK resolver assembly is an assembly that is loaded when an SDK is referenced in a project file. The purpose of the resolve assembly is to find and load the appropriate SDK. If this error occurs, it means that the resolver assembly couldn't be located.

## Resolution

This error should never occur if you're using `dotnet build` or Visual Studio to run MSBuild, but it could occur in a custom tool that uses the MSBuild API to perform a build and doesn't locate the right MSBuild installation files. The recommended way to locate MSBuild is to use <xref:Microsoft.Build.Locator.MSBuildLocator>. For detailed instructions, see [Find and use MSBuild versions](../find-and-use-msbuild-versions.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
