docs/msbuild/errors/msb4248.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4248 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4248 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4248
 - MSBuild.CannotExpandItemMetadata
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4248 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4248 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4248: Cannot expand metadata in expression 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4248: Cannot expand metadata in expression "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4248: "}UE: This message is shown when metadata cannot be expanded in an expression for some reason e.g. trying to apply
    %(RootDir) to an item-spec that's not a valid path would result in this error.
    LOCALIZATION: "{1}" is a localized message explaining the problem.
-->
## Remarks

The MSB4248 error occurs when MSBuild is unable to expand item metadata in a build operation. This situation typically happens when metadata references are used in an invalid context or when the metadata being referenced doesn't exist for the item.

## Possible causes

This error can be raised for the following reasons:

1. **Metadata not supported for the item**
   For example, referencing %(RootDir) on an item that isn't a path.

1. **Dynamic item metadata in complex builds**
   - Dynamically generated item metadata may not always be available, depending on the build configuration.

## Resolution

1. **Validate that the requested metadata is consistent with the item.**

1. **Conditionally access metadata**
   - For dynamic builds, ensure metadata is accessed conditionally to avoid referencing undefined metadata:

     ```xml
     <Message Text="Target Framework: %(Metadataname)" Condition="'%(Metadataname)' != ''" />
     ```
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4248.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4248 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4248 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4248
 - MSBuild.CannotExpandItemMetadata
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4248 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4248 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4248: Cannot expand metadata in expression 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4248: Cannot expand metadata in expression "{0}". {1} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4248: "}UE: This message is shown when metadata cannot be expanded in an expression for some reason e.g. trying to apply
    %(RootDir) to an item-spec that's not a valid path would result in this error.
    LOCALIZATION: "{1}" is a localized message explaining the problem.
-->
## Remarks

The MSB4248 error occurs when MSBuild is unable to expand item metadata in a build operation. This situation typically happens when metadata references are used in an invalid context or when the metadata being referenced doesn't exist for the item. For example, the built-in metadata for `SomeItem->%(Extension)` was used, but the item isn't a file.

This error can also occur when file paths exceed the maximum path length. If you use long paths, check the Windows operating system `LongPathsEnabled` setting. For more information, see [Maximum file path limitation](/windows/win32/fileio/maximum-file-path-limitation?tabs=cmd).

## Resolution

1. **Validate that the requested metadata is consistent with the item.**

1. **Conditionally access metadata**
   - For dynamic builds, ensure metadata is accessed conditionally to avoid referencing undefined metadata:

     ```xml
     <Message Text="Target Framework: %(Metadataname)" Condition="'%(Metadataname)' != ''" />
     ```

1. **Enable long paths on the Windows operating system**.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
