docs/msbuild/errors/msb4260.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4260 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4260 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4260
 - MSBuild.SkippedConstraintsOnRequest
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4260 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4260 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4260: Project 'value' skipped graph isolation constraints on referenced project 'value'`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4260: Project "{0}" skipped graph isolation constraints on referenced project "{1}" -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
LOCALIZATION: {0} and {1} are file paths
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4260.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4260 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4260 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4260
 - MSBuild.SkippedConstraintsOnRequest
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4260 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4260 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4260: Project 'project1' skipped graph isolation constraints on referenced project 'project2'`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4260: Project "{0}" skipped graph isolation constraints on referenced project "{1}" -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
LOCALIZATION: {0} and {1} are file paths
-->
## Description

This error occurs when you're using graph mode (`-graph` or `-graphBuild` command-line option) with the isolation option (`-isolate` or `-isolateProject` command-line option) set to `MessageUponIsolationViolation`, and, as described in the [MSBuild command-line reference](../msbuild-command-line-reference.md), there's a project that violates the isolation constraints. A project that isolates the violation constraints can still be built, but it can only be built in real time, not ahead of time and cached. Therefore the cached, serialized output of the project isn't usable. This message is not an error, but it points to an incompatibility between the specified project and the optimum function of the project isolation build mode.

## Resolution

If you can find a way to avoid the isolation constraint, perhaps by removing any build side-effects or avoiding project types that inherently violate the isolation constraints (such as XAML projects), you can avoid the situation that leads to this message.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
