docs/msbuild/errors/msb4801.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4801 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4801 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4801
 - MSBuild.TaskFactoryNotSupportedFailure
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4801 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4801 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4801: The task factory 'value' is not supported on the .NET Core version of MSBuild.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4801: The task factory "{0}" is not supported on the .NET Core version of MSBuild. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4801: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4801.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4801 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4801 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4801
 - MSBuild.TaskFactoryNotSupportedFailure
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4801 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4801 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4801: The task factory 'task-factory' is not supported on the .NET Core version of MSBuild.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4801: The task factory "{0}" is not supported on the .NET Core version of MSBuild. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4801: "}
-->
## Description

This error usually occurs when you're targeting .NET Core or .NET or later, but a task was provided the `CodeTaskFactory` for the `TaskFactory` parameter in a `UsingTask` element. Every task has a task factory, which is used by MSBuild to instantiate and launch the task. For code-based tasks, .NET Framework can use the `CodeTaskFactory`, but .NET Core requires `RoslynCodeTaskFactory`.

For more information, see [RoslynCodeTaskFactory](../msbuild-roslyncodetaskfactory.md).

## Resolution

When you're targeting .NET Core or .NET 5 and later, you must use `RoslynCodeTaskFactory` instead of `CodeTaskFactory`. Note that `RoslynCodeTaskFactory` also works for .NET Framework, so you can safely update any references to `CodeTaskFactory` to `RoslynCodeTaskFactory` regardless of target framework.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
