docs/msbuild/errors/msb4075.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4075 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4075 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4075
 - MSBuild.ProjectUpgradeNeeded
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4075 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4075 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4075: The project file 'value' must be opened in the Visual Studio IDE and converted to the latest version before it can be built by MSBuild.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4075: The project file "{0}" must be opened in the Visual Studio IDE and converted to the latest version before it can be built by MSBuild. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4075: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4075.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4075 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4075 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4075
 - MSBuild.ProjectUpgradeNeeded
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4075 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4075 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4075: The project file 'value' must be opened in the Visual Studio IDE and converted to the latest version before it can be built by MSBuild.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4075: The project file "{0}" must be opened in the Visual Studio IDE and converted to the latest version before it can be built by MSBuild. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4075: "}
-->
## Description

This error is given when MSBuild tries to open a project file that is in a format is no longer supported in later versions of Visual Studio and MSBuild. For example, projects with the extension `.vcproj` are not supported.

## Resolution

Open the project in Visual Studio to convert the project to a newer format. For example, in the case of `.vcproj`, Visual Studio generates a `.vcxproj` file, which you can build on the MSBuild command line, or in Visual Studio.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
