docs/msbuild/errors/msb4017.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4017 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4017 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4017
 - MSBuild.FatalErrorWhileLogging
 - MSBuild.FatalErrorWhileLoggingWithInnerException
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4017 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4017 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.
MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.
MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.
    {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4017: "}UE: This message is used for a special exception that is thrown when a logger fails while logging an event (most
    likely because of a programming error in the logger). When a logger dies, we cannot proceed with the build, and we throw a
    special exception to abort the build.

{StrBegin="MSB4017: "}UE: This message is used for a special exception that is thrown when a logger fails while logging an event (most
    likely because of a programming error in the logger). When a logger dies, we cannot proceed with the build, and we throw a
    special exception to abort the build.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4017.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4017 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4017 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4017
 - MSBuild.FatalErrorWhileLogging
 - MSBuild.FatalErrorWhileLoggingWithInnerException
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4017 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4017 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.
MSB4017: The build stopped unexpectedly because of an unexpected logger failure.
    {0} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4017: "}UE: This message is used for a special exception that is thrown when a logger fails while logging an event (most
    likely because of a programming error in the logger). When a logger dies, we cannot proceed with the build, and we throw a
    special exception to abort the build.

{StrBegin="MSB4017: "}UE: This message is used for a special exception that is thrown when a logger fails while logging an event (most
    likely because of a programming error in the logger). When a logger dies, we cannot proceed with the build, and we throw a
    special exception to abort the build.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->
## Description

This error occurs when a logger fails while logging an event, most likely because of a programming error in the logger. When a logger encounters a fatal error, MSBuild can't continue with the build, and you get this error. The message text from MSBuild is followed by the exception or error from the logger.

## Resolution

If this is occurring when using your own custom logger, you have to debug the logger itself to diagnose and fix the error, and then rebuild the logger and try building again.

If this occurs with a built-in logger, then it's either an engineering defect in MSBuild, or a system issue such as an out-of-memory error. If you suspect an MSBuild bug, see [Report a problem](../../ide/how-to-report-a-problem-with-visual-studio.md), or enter an issue at [https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild].

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
