docs/msbuild/errors/msb4061.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4061 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4061 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4061
 - MSBuild.TaskInstantiationFailureError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4061 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4061 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4061: The 'value' task could not be instantiated from 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4061: The "{0}" task could not be instantiated from "{1}". {2} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4061: "}LOCALIZATION: "{2}" is a localized message from a CLR/FX exception.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4061.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4061 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4061 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4061
 - MSBuild.TaskInstantiationFailureError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4061 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4061 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4061: The 'value' task could not be instantiated from 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4061: The "{0}" task could not be instantiated from "{1}". {2} -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4061: "}LOCALIZATION: "{2}" is a localized message from a CLR/FX exception.
-->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild tries to create a task, but the task creation fails. If this occurs with a build system task, it's usually due to an installation issue. If this occurs with your own custom task, it means that something failed, perhaps in the task constructor.

## Resolution

Reinstall MSBuild or the .NET SDK, or repair your installation of Visual Studio. See [Repair Visual Studio](../../install/repair-visual-studio.md).

For your own custom tasks, you have to debug the issue. Set breakpoint in the task constructor to see if the constructor gets called, and executes successfully. Consider adding error checks or logging information in the constructor code. For more information about debugging and testing a custom task, see [Create a custom task for code generation - Generate a console app and use the custom task](../tutorial-custom-task-code-generation.md#generate-a-console-app-and-use-the-custom-task).
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
