docs/msbuild/errors/msb4078.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4078 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4078 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4078
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseUnknownProjectType
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4078 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4078 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4078: The project file 'value' is not supported by MSBuild and cannot be built.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4078: The project file "{0}" is not supported by MSBuild and cannot be built. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4078: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for MSBuild error messages (2 of 3) (#13915)
* More MSBuild error messages

* Fix errors

* Add MSB4260

* Fix various issues

* add info about long paths

* edit resolution section

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4078.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4078 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4078 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4078
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseUnknownProjectType
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4078 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4078 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4078: The project file 'value' is not supported by MSBuild and cannot be built.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4078: The project file "{0}" is not supported by MSBuild and cannot be built. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4078: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when a project file contains a project of a type that can't be built by MSBuild. Most modern project types support MSBuild, but some older project types in Visual Studio, and project types supported in Visual Studio extensions, do not.

This issue only occurs when you build from the MSBuild or `dotnet` command line; the solution should still build in Visual Studio, if the required workloads, components, and extensions are installed.

## Resolution

If your solution contains project types that don't support MSBuild, use `devenv /build` to build the solution on the command line. See [/Build (devenv.exe)](../../ide/reference/build-devenv-exe.md).

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
