docs/msbuild/errors/msb4107.md, before:

---
title: "MSB4107 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4107 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4107
 - MSBuild.IllFormedItemListOpenParenthesisInCondition
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4107 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4107 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4107: Expected an item list at position 'value' in condition 'value'. Did you forget the opening parenthesis after the '@'? To use a literal '@', use '%40' instead.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4107: Expected an item list at position {1} in condition "{0}". Did you forget the opening parenthesis after the '@'? To use a literal '@', use '%40' instead. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4107: "}
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb4107.md, after:

---
title: "MSB4107 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB4107 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB4107
 - MSBuild.IllFormedItemListOpenParenthesisInCondition
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB4107 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB4107 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB4107: Expected an item list at position 'value' in condition 'value'. Did you forget the opening parenthesis after the '@'? To use a literal '@', use '%40' instead.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB4107: Expected an item list at position {1} in condition "{0}". Did you forget the opening parenthesis after the '@'? To use a literal '@', use '%40' instead. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB4107: "}
-->
## Description

This error occurs when MSBuild tries to parse the syntax for an item list, but the syntax is incorrect. The correct syntax for an item list is `@(ItemList)`. See [MSBuild items](../msbuild-items.md).

## Resolution

Correct the syntax and try building again.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
