docs/msbuild/errors/msb5009.md, before:

---
title: "MSB5009 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB5009 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB5009
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseNestedProjectErrorWithNameAndGuid
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseNestedProjectError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB5009 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB5009 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB5009: Error parsing the project 'value' section with GUID: 'value'. It is nested under 'value' but that project is not found in the solution.
MSB5009: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB5009: Error parsing the project "{0}" section with GUID: "{1}". It is nested under "{2}" but that project is not found in the solution.
MSB5009: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB5009: "}UE: The solution filename is provided separately to loggers.

{StrBegin="MSB5009: "}UE: The solution filename is provided separately to loggers.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add more error message details

docs/msbuild/errors/msb5009.md, after:

---
title: "MSB5009 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB5009 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB5009
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseNestedProjectErrorWithNameAndGuid
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseNestedProjectError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB5009 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB5009 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB5009: Error parsing the project 'value' section with GUID: 'value'. It is nested under 'value' but that project is not found in the solution.
MSB5009: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB5009: Error parsing the project "{0}" section with GUID: "{1}". It is nested under "{2}" but that project is not found in the solution.
MSB5009: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB5009: "}UE: The solution filename is provided separately to loggers.

{StrBegin="MSB5009: "}UE: The solution filename is provided separately to loggers.
-->
## Description

MSBuild generates this error when it tries to build a solution file (`.sln`) that has been corrupted and couldn't be parsed. This usually means a solution file was modified in a way that violated its expected structure and format.

## Resolution

If the solution file was edited, you can usually go back to an earlier revision before the change. You can also try opening the solution in Visual Studio to regenerate the solution file. Visual Studio can usually repair a corrupted solution file. In severe cases, you can try deleting the solution file and manually recreating it using Visual Studio.

<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
