docs/msbuild/errors/msb5023.md, before:

---
title: "MSB5023 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB5023 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB5023
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseNestedProjectUndefinedError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB5023 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB5023 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB5023: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file. A project with the GUID 'value' is listed as being nested under project 'value', but does not exist in the solution.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB5023: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file. A project with the GUID "{0}" is listed as being nested under project "{1}", but does not exist in the solution. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB5023: "}UE: The solution filename is provided separately to loggers.
-->
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild

Commit message:

Add details for more error messages

docs/msbuild/errors/msb5023.md, after:

---
title: "MSB5023 diagnostic code"
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB5023 build error, and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 6/12/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB5023
 - MSBuild.SolutionParseNestedProjectUndefinedError
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---

# MSB5023 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB5023 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB5023: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file. A project with the GUID 'value' is listed as being nested under project 'value', but does not exist in the solution.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB5023: Error parsing the nested project section in solution file. A project with the GUID "{0}" is listed as being nested under project "{1}", but does not exist in the solution. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
<!--
{StrBegin="MSB5023: "}UE: The solution filename is provided separately to loggers.
-->
## Description

This error occurs during the solution build when a nested project couldn't be parsed in the solution file, perhaps due to a syntax error or other corruption in the text of the solution file.

Note that MSBuild uses its own algorithm to parse and build solution files, so in some cases, a build can succeed in Visual Studio, but when you try to build the same solution with MSBuild, it fails.

## Resolution

Try loading the solution in Visual Studio, and then close it and try building from the MSBuild command line. Visual Studio regenerates solution files whenever they are corrupted, and so most problems in solution files can be resolved by allowing Visual Studio to rewrite the file.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild
