---
title: MSB6006 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB6006 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 05/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB6006
 - MSBuild.ToolTask.ToolCommandFailed
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
  - "FSharp"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB6006 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB6006 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

<!-- :::editable-content name="messageText"::: -->
`MSB6006: 'value' exited with code 'value'.`
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- MSB6006: "{0}" exited with code {1}. -->

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error occurs when a command is executed and returns a nonzero exit code, or otherwise indicates an error in its output.

## Resolution

The standard output message text is followed by additional information from the operating system. Look to the additional information provided to determine the cause of the problem.

If logging is enabled in the build, the output might be written to the build log. For more information, see [View, save, and configure build logs](../../ide/how-to-view-save-and-configure-build-log-files.md) and [Obtaining build logs with MSBuild](../obtaining-build-logs-with-msbuild.md).

To diagnose the error, first enable a diagnostic log by using the `-verbosity:diag` command-line switch, and then check the MSBuild log file with the full diagnostics output. For longer output logs on large projects, consider using the binary log `-bl` command-line switch with the [MSBuild Structured Log Viewer](https://msbuildlog.com/) to view the output more easily. 

You can also set the `MSBuildDebugEngine` environment variable to 1 to get all possible logs. For more information, see [Building MSBuild for the .NET Framework - Logs](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild/blob/main/documentation/wiki/Building-Testing-and-Debugging-on-Full-Framework-MSBuild.md#logs).

It might be helpful to reproduce the error in isolation. Try running the tool separately with the same inputs and command-line arguments that MSBuild uses in the build. If symbols are available, and you have a Debug build of the tool, attach a debugger to the tool and debug the tool itself to check for the problem.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild