---
title: MSB8037 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB8037 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB8037
dev_langs:
  - "C++"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB8037

This article describes the MSB8037 error code.

## Message text

`MSB8037: The Windows SDK version *sdk-version* for Desktop C++ *platform* Apps was not found. Install the required version of Windows SDK or change the SDK version in the project property pages or by right-clicking the solution and selecting "Retarget solution".`

## Description

This error occurs when your project specifies a Windows SDK version that isn't available.

Common causes for this error include:

- The specified Windows SDK version isn't installed or can't be found.
- You ported a project, but didn't update the target Windows SDK version. 
- The Windows SDK path is incorrect, or copied from a custom SDK path for a different machine. 

## Resolution

The following sections describe options for resolving the MSB8036 error based on your configuration.

### Install specific SDK version

To install a specific version of the Windows SDK, use the Visual Studio Installer. For more information, see [Modify Visual Studio](../../install/modify-visual-studio.md). In the installer, use the **Individual components** tab to choose specific Windows SDKs.

### Specify target SDK for solution

To specify the target Windows SDK for your solution, follow these steps:

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click your solution (not your project), and select **Retarget solution**.

1. In the **Review Solution Actions** dialog, expand the **Windows SDK Version** dropdown list and select a specific Windows SDK.

   You can select **10.0 (latest installed version)** to instruct Visual Studio to always use the most recent SDK version, if multiple versions are installed.

### Specify target SDK for project

To specify the target Windows SDK for your project, follow these steps:

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project node, and select **Properties** (**Alt**+**Enter**).
1. In the **Property Pages** dialog for your project, select the **Configuration Properties** > **General** property page.
1. Modify the value for the **Windows SDK Version** or **Target Platform Version** property.

   The dropdown list of values shows the specific versions detected by Visual Studio. The value **10.0 (latest installed version)** instructs Visual Studio to always use the most recent SDK version, if multiple versions are installed.

1. Select **OK** to save your changes.

### Change directory paths for Windows SDK

To verify the SDK path is set to the correct location, follow these steps:

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project node, and select **Properties** (**Alt**+**Enter**).
1. In the **Property Pages** dialog for your project, select the **Configuration Properties** > **VC++ Directories** property page.
1. Check the values for the **Include Directories** and **Library Directories** properties. Look for custom paths and correct as needed.

   - The default value for the *Include* directory for your selected Windows SDK is specified with the `$(WindowsSDK_IncludePath)` macro.
   - The default value for the *Library* directory is specified with the `$(WindowsSDK_LibraryPath_<platform>)` macro, where `<platform>` represents the target architecture.

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild