---
title: MSB8020 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB8020 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB8020
dev_langs:
  - "C++"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB8020

This article describes the MSB8020 error message.

## Message text

`MSB8020: The build tools for *toolset-name* (Platform Toolset = '*platform-toolset*') cannot be found. To build using the *platform-toolset* build tools, please install *toolset-name* build tools.  Alternatively, you may upgrade to the current Visual Studio tools by selecting the Project menu or right-click the solution, and then selecting "Retarget solution".`

## Description

This error occurs when the platform toolset required by the build isn't installed or the necessary folder doesn't exist.

A platform toolset is a collection of build tools for a particular version of Microsoft C++ (MSVC) and target platform. 

For C++ projects, the `$(PlatformToolset)` property (for example, v143) points to a specific folder in the Visual Studio installation. The folder contains the MSBuild `.props` and `.targets` files which support a particular build toolset. For more information, see [Add a new platform toolset](../../extensibility/visual-cpp-project-extensibility.md#add-a-new-platform-toolset).

## Resolution

Native tools are architecture-specific and need to be installed for each platform (`$(Platform)`), which represents the target architecture. For instance, for Windows Desktop ARM64 support, you need to install MSVC ARM64 components found in the individual components. For more information, see [Modify Visual Studio](../../install/modify-visual-studio.md).

For Universal Windows Platform (UWP) projects (that is, projects which have `$(ApplicationType)` set as "Windows Store"), a specific UWP MSVC version (v143, v142, and so on) should be installed as part of UWP workflow, which is an optional component. If you only install desktop MSVC support, and not the UWP component, the MSB8020 error occurs when you try to build a UWP project. Each UWP MSVC toolset includes support for all target architectures.

The missing platform toolset is also available from a Visual Studio extension, as described in [Visual Studio C++ Project system extensibility and toolset integration](../../extensibility/visual-cpp-project-extensibility.md#add-a-new-platform-toolset). Search for the name of the toolset in the Visual Studio extension gallery and install it.  

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild