---
title: MSB8041 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB8041 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB8041
dev_langs:
  - "C++"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB8041 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB8041 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB8041: MFC/ATL Libraries are required for this project.`

## Description

This error occurs when the project requires Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC) or the Active Template Library (ATL), but the libraries aren't found. MFC and ATL libraries aren't installed by default when you install a C++ workload in Visual Studio.

## Resolution

Verify the correct versions of MFC and ATL libraries for your build toolset are installed. There are versions of MFC for each version of the C++ build tools, for each target platform, and with or without Spectre mitigations. For example, **C++ MFC for latest v143 build tools (x86 and x64)** has the x86 and x64 libraries without Spectre mitigations for the latest version of Visual Studio 2022 (v143). If you simply want to use the latest libraries for a given version of a Visual Studio toolset, you need **C++ MFC for latest \[version] build tools (\[target])** for non-Spectre builds and **C++ MFC for latest \[version] build tools with Spectre Mitigations (\[target])** for Spectre mitigated builds. Choose the correct option for your target platform architecture. The other options support scenarios for specific targeting of an earlier toolset. For more information, see [MFC Library Versions](/cpp/mfc/mfc-library-versions).

### Install MFC and ATL libraries

1. Open the Visual Studio Installer.
1. Select the **Modify** button next to the version of Visual Studio you use.
1. Select the **Individual components** tab at the top of the dialog.
1. In the **Search components** box, enter *MFC*. 
1. Select the MFC components that match your project targets, such as x86 or ARM64EC. Select the components with Spectre mitigations if you build your projects with Spectre mitigations enabled.

   In most cases, you want to select MFC for the latest build tools. Your organization or project might require a specific earlier version of the toolset. Make sure the version, targets, and Spectre mitigations of the MFC components you install match the toolset version, targets, and Spectre mitigations required by the project you're building.

1. In the **Search components** box, enter *ATL*. 
1. Select the ATL components that match your project targets, such as x86 or ARM64EC. Select the components with Spectre mitigations if you build your projects with Spectre mitigations enabled.

   In most cases, you want to select ATL for the latest build tools. Your organization or project might require a specific earlier version of the toolset. Make sure the version, targets, and Spectre mitigations of the ATL components you install match the toolset version, targets, and Spectre mitigations required by the project you're building.

1. Select **Modify** to install the selected components.

For more information about modifying Visual Studio to install the libraries and binaries you need, see [Modify Visual Studio](../../install/modify-visual-studio.md).

### Explore advanced diagnostics

For detailed build troubleshooting, the MSB8041 error is triggered in the C++ build process in the MSBuild target *Microsoft.CppBuild.targets* when the following file isn't found: *`$(VCToolsInstallDir)atlmfc\lib\$(_SpectreLibsDir)$(PlatformShortName)\mfcs140.lib`*. The properties come from the environment (`$(VCToolsInstallDir)`) and the project configuration: `$(_SpectreLibsDir)` is empty or *`spectre\`*, `$(PlatformShortName)` is `x86`, `x64`, `arm`, `arm64`, or `arm64EC`.

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild