---
title: MSB8042 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB8042 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB8042
dev_langs:
  - "C++"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB8042

This article describes the MSB8042 error code.

## Message text

`MSB8042: ATL or MFC libraries with Spectre Mitigations are required for this project. Install them from the Visual Studio installer (Individual components tab) for any toolsets and architectures being used. Learn more: https://aka.ms/Ofhn4c`.

## Description

This error occurs in a Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC) or Active Template Library (ATL) project that requires Spectre-mitigated libraries (**C/C++** > **Spectre Mitigation** isn't set to **Disabled**), but the libraries aren't installed. 

## Resolution

First, determine if you want to implement Spectre mitigation, and then follow the necessary steps to update your installation to address the error.

### Disable Spectre mitigation

If you don't want to use Spectre mitigation, disable the option in Visual Studio. For command-line builds, confirm you're not using the `/Qspectre` compiler option or its variants `/Qspectre-load` and `/Qspectre-load-cf`.
   
To disable the option in Visual Studio, follow these steps:
   
1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project node, and select **Properties** (**Alt**+**Enter**).
1. In the **Property Pages** dialog for your project, select the **Configuration Properties** > **C/C++** > **Code Generation** property page.
1. Set the **Spectre Mitigations** property to **Disabled**.
1. Select **OK** to save your changes.

:::image type="content" source="../media/errors/spectre-disable.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to disable Spectre mitigations in Visual Studio.":::

### Enable Spectre mitigation

If you decide to use Spectre mitigation, make sure your installation includes the correct compiler and library components with support for Spectre mitigation.

To update your installation, follow these steps:

1. Open the Visual Studio Installer.
1. Select the **Modify** button next to the version of Visual Studio you use.
1. Select the **Individual components** tab at the top of the dialog.
1. In the **Search components** box, enter *Spectre v14.2*.
1. In the **Compiler, build tools and runtime** section, make sure the **MSVC v142… Spectre-mitigated libs** option is selected for all architectures the build targets.
1. To use ATL or MFC, also select the libraries, such as **C++ MFC for latest v142 build tools with Spectre Mitigations** (or the appropriate version for your toolset) for all architectures the build targets. For more information, see [Install MFC and ATL libraries](./msb8041.md#install-mfc-and-atl-libraries).
1. Select **Modify** to install the selected components.

:::image type="content" source="../media/errors/spectre-install-components.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to update the installation to include the Spectre mitigations library.":::

### Specify compiler options

If you enable Spectre mitigations, make sure you specify a `/Qspectre` compiler option. For more information, see the [/Qspectre](/cpp/build/reference/qspectre) compiler option. 

To specify the `/Qspectre` compiler option, follow these steps:

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project node, and select **Properties** (**Alt**+**Enter**).
1. In the **Property Pages** dialog for your project, select the **Configuration Properties** > **C/C++** > **Code Generation** property page.
1. Set the **Spectre Mitigations** property to one of the following values:
   
   - **Enabled**
   - **All loads** for [/Qspectre-load](/cpp/build/reference/qspectre-load)
   - **All Control Flow Loads** for [/Qspectre-load-cf](/cpp/build/reference/qspectre-load-cf)

1. Select **OK** to save your changes.

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild