---
title: MSB8006 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB8006 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB8006
dev_langs:
  - "C++"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB8006 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB8006 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB8006: The Platform for project '*project-name.vcxproj*' is invalid.  Platform='*platform-name*'. This error may also appear if some other project is trying to follow a project-to-project reference to this project, this project has been unloaded or is not included in the solution, and the referencing project does not build using the same or an equivalent Platform.`

<!-- :::editable-content name="postOutputDescription"::: -->
## Description

This error occurs when the platform for your project is invalid.

A *Platform* is a build target architecture that uses a matching set of C++ build tools and libraries, or *toolset*. Visual Studio supplies specific platform toolsets to build for Win32 (x86), x64, ARM, and ARM64 Windows targets. It also supports optional platform toolsets to build for Linux, Android, and iOS targets.

:::moniker range="visualstudio"
The Microsoft C++ Build Tools (also called the MSVC Build Tools) contain the corresponding architecture-specific versions of the platform toolset. For example, the Microsoft C++ Build Tools v14.50 contains a platform toolset for each of the supported architectures and targets.
:::moniker-end

This error can occur when your project specifies a platform, but it's not the one installed with Visual Studio, or Visual Studio can't find it.  

## Resolution

Use the Visual Studio Installer to install optional platforms and toolsets. For more information, see [Modify Visual Studio](../../install/modify-visual-studio.md). Use the **Individual components** tab in the installer to choose specific platforms, libraries, and SDKs.

Most projects don't need to specify a custom platform, but it's possible to create one. For more information, see [Visual Studio C++ Project system extensibility and toolset integration](../../extensibility/visual-cpp-project-extensibility.md). After you create the custom *`.props`* and *`.targets`* files for your platform, you can select it in the IDE in the **Property Pages** dialog for your project. 

Make sure your project is loaded when its built by a referencing project. Verify your project is built for the same platform as the referencing project.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->
<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription-end::: -->

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild