---
title: MSB8027 diagnostic code
description: Learn about the possible causes of the MSB8027 build error and get troubleshooting tips.
ms.date: 04/16/2025
ms.topic: "error-reference"
f1_keywords:
 - MSB8027
dev_langs:
  - "C++"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: msbuild
---
# MSB8027 diagnostic code

<!-- :::ErrorDefinitionDescription::: -->
<!-- :::editable-content name="introDescription"::: -->
This article describes the MSB8027 error code.
<!-- :::editable-content-end::: -->

## Message text

`MSB8027: Two or more files with the name of *filename* will produce outputs to the same location. This can lead to an incorrect build result. The files involved are *file-path-1* *file-path-2*.`

## Description

This error occurs when two or more source files have the same name, and build results go to the same intermediate directory. After the first file builds, the build overwrites output from the first file with output from the next file that has the same name.

The error output message is often followed by a `LNK4042` warning. This error can occur when you combine projects that use the same filename in different locations.

## Resolution

If your project has two or more source files that have the same name, give each file a unique name.

If you can't change the file names, compile each file to a unique intermediate directory.

To set the intermediate file location, follow these steps:

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the source file, and select **Properties**.
1. In the **Property Pages** dialog for the source file, select the **Configuration Properties** > **C/C++** > **Output Files** property page.
1. Change the **Object File Name** property from `$(IntDir)` to `$(IntDir)%(RelativeDir)`.
1. Select **OK** to save your changes. 

## Applies to

All versions of MSBuild