docs/xaml-tools/xaml-live-preview.md, before:

---
title: Capture & edit desktop app UI with XAML Live Preview
description: Pair XAML Live Preview with XAML Hot Reload to capture desktop app UI, make iterative changes in Visual Studio, and view your changes in real time.
ms.date: 11/08/2021
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "xaml edit"
  - "xaml live preview"
author: maddymontaquila
ms.author: maleger
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: xaml-tools
monikerRange: vs-2022
---
# XAML Live Preview: Capture and edit desktop app UI

With XAML Live Preview, you can capture a desktop app's user interface (UI) and bring it into a docked window within Visual Studio, which makes it easier to use [XAML Hot Reload](xaml-hot-reload.md) to change the app and then view those changes in real time as you make them.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview.gif" alt-text="An animation that shows XAML Live Preview in action.":::

## XAML Live Preview window

The XAML Live Preview window is available during debugging. To open it, go to **Debug** > **Windows** > **XAML Live Preview**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the XAML Live Preview option from the Debug menu bar.":::

Or, select the **Show in XAML Live Preview** button in the application toolbar.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-toolbar.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the XAML Live Preview option from the application toolbar.":::

### Scrolling and zooming

Besides scrolling with the scroll bars, you can also use the following interactions:

- A mouse wheel, both vertical and horizontal (if your mouse supports it).
- A touchpad two-finger scroll, both vertical and horizontal.
- A **Ctrl** key press paired with a mouse drag action.

As for zooming, you can also use the following interactions:

- The Zoom in/out buttons in the bottom-left corner.
- A **Ctrl**+**plus sign** (+) or **Ctrl**+**minus sign** (-) keyboard shortcut press, if you prefer using a keyboard.
- A **Ctrl** key press paired with a mouse wheel action, or a pinch to zoom action with touchpad. An extra bonus of using a mouse is maintaining an area of control.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-scroll-zoom.gif" alt-text="An animation of the scroll and zoom actions in XAML Live Preview.":::

### Element selection

Element selection in XAML Live Preview is similar to selection in a running application. It allows you to find elements in either the Live Visual Tree or in source XAML.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-element-selection.gif" alt-text="An animation of the element selection action in XAML Live Preview.":::

Element selection is controlled by the first four toolbar buttons (from left to right).

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-toolbar-selection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the XAML Live Preview toolbar buttons for element selection.":::

The toolbar buttons produce the following actions:

- **Element selection** starts the element selection action; in other words, it highlights elements as you move your mouse over application content in XAML Live Preview. When you click on an element, it's selected in Live Visual Tree. It also navigates to source if **Preview Selected Element** is enabled, and source XAML available. This behavior is the same as that in Live Visual Tree.
- **Show element info during selection** is a toggle button that controls the display of size, color, and font information about the element under your mouse.
- **Just My XAML** is a toggle button that controls which elements to highlight: all, or only those elements with source XAML available in solution. This behavior is the same as that in Live Visual Tree.
- **Preview Selected Item** is a toggle button that controls navigation to source XAML when an element is selected. It's off by default. This behavior is the same as that in Live Visual Tree.

### Rulers

Rulers help you align elements in your application. They display distance, in application units, to previous ruler. In this way, they help verify distances between different parts of your application.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-rulers.gif" alt-text="And animation of the rulers in action.":::

The second group of toolbar buttons control the rulers, as follows (from left to right):

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-toolbar-rulers.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the second group of rulers toolbar buttons in XAML Live Preview.":::

- **Add vertical ruler**. Adds a single vertical ruler. If you click this button few times in a row, it will place new rulers so that they don't overlap existing rulers.
- **Add horizontal ruler**. Adds a single horizontal ruler, similar to the vertical ruler.
- **Remove all rulers**. Removes all rulers at time.
- **Select ruler color**. Changes the color of the rulers.
- **Toggle ruler visibility**. Hides or shows all rulers with a single click.

Rulers are keyboard-friendly. You can tab around them. You can use arrow keys to move rulers one pixel at a time, or press **Ctrl** paired with arrow keys to move them by 10 app units at a time. The **Del** key deletes the currently selected ruler. You can also delete a ruler with a mouse by selecting the **Delete Ruler** button near the label.

You can also add rulers around an element while using Element Selection. A right-click adds vertical rulers. To add horizontal rulers, select and hold the **Shift** key while you right-click.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-outline-rulers.gif" alt-text="And animation of how you can add rulers to the outline of an image in XAML Live Preview.":::

### Multi-window applications

If your application has multiple windows, then you can choose which window to display by using the Window combo box. Or, use the **Show in XAML Live Preview** button in the application toolbar that's on the window you want to preview.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-change-window.gif" alt-text="An animation of the multi-window application feature in XAML Live Preview.":::

## Supported platforms

The initial release of Visual Studio 2022 supports the following platforms and debugging scenarios.

|Platform  |Element Selection & Info Tip  |Rulers  |
|---------|---------|---------|
|WPF      |Yes         |Yes         |
|UWP      |Yes         |Yes         |
|WinUI3 desktop     |Yes        |Yes         |
|.NET MAUI|Yes         |Yes     |
|Xamarin 5.0+ (Android Emulator)     |No          |Yes (px*)         |

> [!NOTE]
> In the preceding table, (**px***) indicates rulers that display in pixels; all other platforms display info in platform units, which depend on a monitor's DPI.

## Limitations

XAML Live Preview works by capturing an application screenshot several times a second, and uses available APIs like [PrintWindow](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-printwindow). It's subject to following limitations:

- If a part of an app window is off screen, then that part is not likely to display XAML Hot Reload changes.
- A window can opt out of screenshot capturing&mdash;and become unavailable for XAML Live Preview&mdash;by using [SetWindowDisplayAffinity](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowdisplayaffinity) with WDA_EXCLUDEFROMCAPTURE or [DwmSetWindowAttribute](/windows/win32/api/dwmapi/nf-dwmapi-dwmsetwindowattribute) with DWMWA_CLOAK.

## Next steps

Learn more about [XAML Hot Reload](xaml-hot-reload.md), which pairs closely with XAML Live Preview.

## Related content

[Visual Studio 2022 release notes](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes)

Commit message:

Add info on availability of XAML Live Preview and XAML Hot Reload at design-time

docs/xaml-tools/xaml-live-preview.md, after:

---
title: Capture & edit desktop app UI with XAML Live Preview
description: Pair XAML Live Preview with XAML Hot Reload to capture desktop app UI, make iterative changes in Visual Studio, and view your changes in real time.
ms.date: 04/24/2025
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "xaml edit"
  - "xaml live preview"
author: maddymontaquila
ms.author: maleger
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: xaml-tools
monikerRange: vs-2022
---
# XAML Live Preview: Capture and edit desktop app UI

With XAML Live Preview, you can capture a desktop app's user interface (UI) and bring it into a docked window within Visual Studio, which makes it easier to use [XAML Hot Reload](xaml-hot-reload.md) to change the app and then view those changes in real time as you make them.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview.gif" alt-text="An animation that shows XAML Live Preview in action.":::

## XAML Live Preview window

The XAML Live Preview window is available during debugging. To open it, go to **Debug** > **Windows** > **XAML Live Preview**.

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.14 Preview 2, XAML Live Preview and [XAML Hot Reload](../xaml-tools/xaml-hot-reload.md) are available at design-time and not just during a debugging session.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the XAML Live Preview option from the Debug menu bar.":::

Or, select the **Show in XAML Live Preview** button in the application toolbar.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-toolbar.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the XAML Live Preview option from the application toolbar.":::

### Scrolling and zooming

Besides scrolling with the scroll bars, you can also use the following interactions:

- A mouse wheel, both vertical and horizontal (if your mouse supports it).
- A touchpad two-finger scroll, both vertical and horizontal.
- A **Ctrl** key press paired with a mouse drag action.

As for zooming, you can also use the following interactions:

- The Zoom in/out buttons in the bottom-left corner.
- A **Ctrl**+**plus sign** (+) or **Ctrl**+**minus sign** (-) keyboard shortcut press, if you prefer using a keyboard.
- A **Ctrl** key press paired with a mouse wheel action, or a pinch to zoom action with touchpad. An extra bonus of using a mouse is maintaining an area of control.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-scroll-zoom.gif" alt-text="An animation of the scroll and zoom actions in XAML Live Preview.":::

### Element selection

Element selection in XAML Live Preview is similar to selection in a running application. It allows you to find elements in either the Live Visual Tree or in source XAML.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-element-selection.gif" alt-text="An animation of the element selection action in XAML Live Preview.":::

Element selection is controlled by the first four toolbar buttons (from left to right).

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-toolbar-selection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the XAML Live Preview toolbar buttons for element selection.":::

The toolbar buttons produce the following actions:

- **Element selection** starts the element selection action; in other words, it highlights elements as you move your mouse over application content in XAML Live Preview. When you click on an element, it's selected in Live Visual Tree. It also navigates to source if **Preview Selected Element** is enabled, and source XAML available. This behavior is the same as that in Live Visual Tree.
- **Show element info during selection** is a toggle button that controls the display of size, color, and font information about the element under your mouse.
- **Just My XAML** is a toggle button that controls which elements to highlight: all, or only those elements with source XAML available in solution. This behavior is the same as that in Live Visual Tree.
- **Preview Selected Item** is a toggle button that controls navigation to source XAML when an element is selected. It's off by default. This behavior is the same as that in Live Visual Tree.

### Rulers

Rulers help you align elements in your application. They display distance, in application units, to previous ruler. In this way, they help verify distances between different parts of your application.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-rulers.gif" alt-text="And animation of the rulers in action.":::

The second group of toolbar buttons control the rulers, as follows (from left to right):

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-toolbar-rulers.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the second group of rulers toolbar buttons in XAML Live Preview.":::

- **Add vertical ruler**. Adds a single vertical ruler. If you click this button few times in a row, it will place new rulers so that they don't overlap existing rulers.
- **Add horizontal ruler**. Adds a single horizontal ruler, similar to the vertical ruler.
- **Remove all rulers**. Removes all rulers at time.
- **Select ruler color**. Changes the color of the rulers.
- **Toggle ruler visibility**. Hides or shows all rulers with a single click.

Rulers are keyboard-friendly. You can tab around them. You can use arrow keys to move rulers one pixel at a time, or press **Ctrl** paired with arrow keys to move them by 10 app units at a time. The **Del** key deletes the currently selected ruler. You can also delete a ruler with a mouse by selecting the **Delete Ruler** button near the label.

You can also add rulers around an element while using Element Selection. A right-click adds vertical rulers. To add horizontal rulers, select and hold the **Shift** key while you right-click.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-outline-rulers.gif" alt-text="And animation of how you can add rulers to the outline of an image in XAML Live Preview.":::

### Multi-window applications

If your application has multiple windows, then you can choose which window to display by using the Window combo box. Or, use the **Show in XAML Live Preview** button in the application toolbar that's on the window you want to preview.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/xaml-live-preview-change-window.gif" alt-text="An animation of the multi-window application feature in XAML Live Preview.":::

## Supported platforms

The initial release of Visual Studio 2022 supports the following platforms and debugging scenarios.

|Platform  |Element Selection & Info Tip  |Rulers  |
|---------|---------|---------|
|WPF      |Yes         |Yes         |
|UWP      |Yes         |Yes         |
|WinUI3 desktop     |Yes        |Yes         |
|.NET MAUI|Yes         |Yes     |
|Xamarin 5.0+ (Android Emulator)     |No          |Yes (px*)         |

> [!NOTE]
> In the preceding table, (**px***) indicates rulers that display in pixels; all other platforms display info in platform units, which depend on a monitor's DPI.

## Limitations

XAML Live Preview works by capturing an application screenshot several times a second, and uses available APIs like [PrintWindow](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-printwindow). It's subject to following limitations:

- If a part of an app window is off screen, then that part is not likely to display XAML Hot Reload changes.
- A window can opt out of screenshot capturing&mdash;and become unavailable for XAML Live Preview&mdash;by using [SetWindowDisplayAffinity](/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-setwindowdisplayaffinity) with WDA_EXCLUDEFROMCAPTURE or [DwmSetWindowAttribute](/windows/win32/api/dwmapi/nf-dwmapi-dwmsetwindowattribute) with DWMWA_CLOAK.

## Next steps

Learn more about [XAML Hot Reload](xaml-hot-reload.md), which pairs closely with XAML Live Preview.

## Related content

[Visual Studio 2022 release notes](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes)
