---
title: "Customizing a Ribbon for InfoPath | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/02/2017"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "office-development"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
dev_langs: 
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "InfoPath [Office development in Visual Studio], Ribbon"
  - "Ribbon [Office development in Visual Studio], InfoPath"
author: TerryGLee
ms.author: tglee
manager: ghogen
ms.workload: 
  - "office"
---
# Customizing a Ribbon for InfoPath
  When you customize the Ribbon in Microsoft Office InfoPath, you must consider where your custom Ribbon will appear in the application. [!INCLUDE[InfoPath_14_short](../vsto/includes/infopath-14-short-md.md)] can display the Ribbon in the following three types of InfoPath application windows:  
  
-   Windows that display a form template that is opened in design mode.  
  
-   Windows that display a form that is based on a form template.  
  
-   The Print Preview window.  
  
 **Applies to:** The information in this topic applies to VSTO Add-in projects for InfoPath 2010. For more information, see [Features Available by Office Application and Project Type](../vsto/features-available-by-office-application-and-project-type.md).  
  
 Users and designers open a form template in design mode to modify the appearance and layout of the template. Users open forms that are based in a form template to add content.  
  
 The Print Preview window enables designers and users to preview the pages of a form or form template before they print them.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
>  The **AddIns** tab does not appear in the Print Preview window. If you want a custom tab to appear in the Print Preview window, make sure that the **OfficeId** property of the tab is not set to **TabAddIns**.  
  
 You must specify the Ribbon type of each window in which you want your Ribbon to appear.  
  
## Specifying the Ribbon Type in the Ribbon Designer  
 If you are using the **Ribbon (Visual Designer)** item, click the **RibbonType** property of the Ribbon in the **Properties** window, and then select any of the Ribbon ID's described in the following table.  
  
|Ribbon ID|Window in which the Ribbon will appear when you run the project|  
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|  
|**Microsoft.InfoPath.Designer**|Windows that display a form template that is opened in design mode.|  
|**Microsoft.InfoPath.Editor**|Windows that display a form that is based on a form template.|  
|**Microsoft.InfoPath.PrintPreview**|The Print Preview window.|  
  
 You can add more than one Ribbon to a project. If more than one Ribbon share a Ribbon ID, override the CreateRibbonExtensibilityObject method in the `ThisAddin` class of your project to specify which Ribbon to display at run time. For more information, see [Ribbon Overview](../vsto/ribbon-overview.md).  
  
## Specifying the Ribbon Type by Using Ribbon XML  
 If you are using the **Ribbon (XML)** item, check the value of the *ribbonID* parameter in the <xref:Microsoft.Office.Core.IRibbonExtensibility.GetCustomUI%2A> method and return the appropriate Ribbon.  
  
 The <xref:Microsoft.Office.Core.IRibbonExtensibility.GetCustomUI%2A> method is automatically generated by Visual Studio in the Ribbon code file. The *ribbonID* parameter is a string that identifies the type of InfoPath window that is opening.  
  
 The following code example demonstrates how to display a custom Ribbon only in a window that displays a form template in design mode. The Ribbon to display is specified in the `GetResourceText()` method, which is generated in the Ribbon class. For more information about the Ribbon class, see [Ribbon XML](../vsto/ribbon-xml.md).  
  
 [!code-csharp[Trin_RibbonInfoPathBasic#1](../vsto/codesnippet/CSharp/myinfopathproject/ribbon.cs#1)]
 [!code-vb[Trin_RibbonInfoPathBasic#1](../vsto/codesnippet/VisualBasic/myinfopathproject/ribbon.vb#1)]  
  
## See Also  
 [Accessing the Ribbon at Run Time](../vsto/accessing-the-ribbon-at-run-time.md)   
 [Ribbon Overview](../vsto/ribbon-overview.md)   
 [Ribbon Designer](../vsto/ribbon-designer.md)   
 [Ribbon XML](../vsto/ribbon-xml.md)  
  
  