---
title: Add Actions pane to Word docs or Excel workbooks
description: Add an actions pane to a Microsoft Office Word document or a Microsoft Excel workbook, by first creating a Windows Forms user control.
ms.date: "02/02/2017"
ms.topic: "how-to"
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "smart documents [Office development in Visual Studio], creating in Word"
  - "smart documents [Office development in Visual Studio], adding controls"
  - "actions panes [Office development in Visual Studio], creating in Word"
  - "actions panes [Office development in Visual Studio], adding controls"
author: John-Hart
ms.author: johnhart
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: office-development
---
# Add an Actions Pane to Word Documents or Excel Workbooks

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Actions feature has been retired from Microsoft Word starting in Office 2024.
> This feature is only available in Microsoft Word with the following releases of Office:
> - Microsoft 365
> - Office LTSC Professional Plus 2021
> - Office LTSC Standard 2021
> - Office Professional Plus 2016, 2019
> - Office Standard 2016, 2019

 To add an actions pane to a Microsoft Office Word document or a Microsoft Excel workbook, first create a Windows Forms user control. Then, add the user control to the <xref:Microsoft.Office.Tools.ActionsPane.Controls%2A> property of the `ThisDocument.ActionsPane` field (Word) or `ThisWorkbook.ActionsPane` field (Excel) in your project.

 [!INCLUDE[appliesto_alldoc](../vsto/includes/appliesto-alldoc-md.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> Your computer might show different names or locations for some of the Visual Studio user interface elements in the following instructions. The Visual Studio edition that you have and the settings that you use determine these elements. For more information, see [Personalize the Visual Studio IDE](../ide/personalizing-the-visual-studio-ide.md).

## Creating the User Control
 The following procedure shows how to create user control in a Word or Excel project. It also adds a button to the user control that writes text to the document or workbook when it is clicked.

#### To create the user control

1. Open your Word or Excel document-level project in Visual Studio.

2. On the **Project** menu, click **Add New Item**.

3. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, select **Actions Pane Control**, name it **HelloControl**, and click **Add**.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You can alternatively add a **User Control** item to your project. The classes generated by the **Actions Pane Control** and **User Control** items are functionally equivalent.

4. From the **Windows Forms** tab of the **Toolbox,** drag a **Button** control onto the control.

    > [!NOTE]
    > If the control is not visible in the designer, double click **HelloControl** in **Solution Explorer**.

5. Add the code to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Click> event handler of the button. The following example shows code for a Microsoft Office Word document.

     ### [C#](#tab/csharp)
     :::code language="csharp" source="../vsto/codesnippet/CSharp/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordCS/HelloControl.cs" id="Snippet12":::

     ### [VB](#tab/vb)
     :::code language="vb" source="../vsto/codesnippet/VisualBasic/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordVB/HelloControl.vb" id="Snippet12":::
     ---

6. In C#, you must add an event handler for the button click. You can place this code in the `HelloControl` constructor after the call to `InitializeComponent`.

     For information about how to create event handlers, see [How to: Create Event Handlers in Office Projects](../vsto/how-to-create-event-handlers-in-office-projects.md).

     :::code language="csharp" source="../vsto/codesnippet/CSharp/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordCS/HelloControl.cs" id="Snippet13":::

## Add the user control to the actions pane
 To show the actions pane, add the user control to the <xref:Microsoft.Office.Tools.ActionsPane.Controls%2A> property of the `ThisDocument.ActionsPane` field (Word) or `ThisWorkbook.ActionsPane` field (Excel).

### To add the user control to the actions pane

1. Add the following code to the `ThisDocument` or `ThisWorkbook` class as a class-level declaration (do not add this code to a method).

     ### [C#](#tab/csharp)
     :::code language="csharp" source="../vsto/codesnippet/CSharp/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordCS/ThisDocument.cs" id="Snippet14":::

     ### [VB](#tab/vb)
     :::code language="vb" source="../vsto/codesnippet/VisualBasic/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordVB/ThisDocument.vb" id="Snippet14":::
     ---

2. Add the following code to the `ThisDocument_Startup` event handler of the `ThisDocument` class or the `ThisWorkbook_Startup` event handler of the `ThisWorkbook` class.

     ### [C#](#tab/csharp)
     :::code language="csharp" source="../vsto/codesnippet/CSharp/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordCS/ThisDocument.cs" id="Snippet15":::

     ### [VB](#tab/vb)
     :::code language="vb" source="../vsto/codesnippet/VisualBasic/Trin_VstcoreActionsPaneWordVB/ThisDocument.vb" id="Snippet15":::
     ---

## Related content
- [Actions pane overview](../vsto/actions-pane-overview.md)
- [Walkthrough: Insert text into a document from an actions pane](../vsto/walkthrough-inserting-text-into-a-document-from-an-actions-pane.md)
- [How to: Manage control layout on actions panes](../vsto/how-to-manage-control-layout-on-actions-panes.md)
- [Walkthrough: Insert text into a document from an actions pane](../vsto/walkthrough-inserting-text-into-a-document-from-an-actions-pane.md)
