---
title: "Office Projects in the Visual Studio Environment | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "02/02/2017"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "office-development"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "VST.ProjectItem.WordDocument"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.ExcelWorkbook"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.ExcelTemplate"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.ExcelSheet"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.BlueprintCode"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.Word"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.Excel"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.AddinProject"
  - "Designer_Microsoft.VisualStudio.OfficeTools.Excel.Design.WorksheetDesigner"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.ExtendedBluePrint"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.WordTemplate"
  - "Designer_Microsoft.VisualStudio.OfficeTools.Word.Design.DocumentDesigner"
  - "VST.Designer.ExcelVST.Designer.Word"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.ExtendedBlueprintCode"
  - "VST.ProjectItem.BluePrint"
dev_langs: 
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "documents [Office development in Visual Studio]"
  - "hidden files [Office development in Visual Studio]"
  - "project files [Office development in Visual Studio], hidden"
  - "Office development in Visual Studio, documents in Visual Studio"
  - "design view, Excel"
  - "designers, Office development in Visual Studio"
  - "Office documents [Office development in Visual Studio]"
  - "Office documents [Office development in Visual Studio], about documents in Visual Studio"
  - "designers [Office development in Visual Studio]"
  - "Word designer"
  - "Word [Office development in Visual Studio], Word designer"
  - "Visual Studio, Office documents in"
  - "worksheets [Office development in Visual Studio]"
  - "VST.Designer.ExcelVST.Designer.Word"
author: TerryGLee
ms.author: tglee
manager: ghogen
ms.workload: 
  - "office"
---
# Office Projects in the Visual Studio Environment
  Microsoft Office projects have a development experience that is similar to other types of projects in Visual Studio, such as Windows Forms projects. When you create or open an Office project, the project items appear in **Solution Explorer**. For document-level projects, the document (that is, the Word document or Excel workbook) opens in Visual Studio, and the document behaves as a visual designer.  
  
 [!INCLUDE[appliesto_all](../vsto/includes/appliesto-all-md.md)]  
  
## Project Items in Solution Explorer  
 In a document-level project, **Solution Explorer** displays the following default items:  
  
-   Nodes for the document, workbook, and sheets that are customized by the project. These nodes serve as containers for the code files that are associated with the document, workbook, and sheets.  
  
-   Code files that are associated with the document, workbook, and sheets that are customized by the project. In Word projects, code files are associated with the Word document or template. In Excel projects, code files are associated with the Excel workbook or template, and with each worksheet and chart sheet in the workbook or template.  
  
-   Hidden project files that you are not intended to edit directly. For more information, see [Hidden Project Files](#hiddenfiles).  
  
 In a VSTO Add-in project, **Solution Explorer** displays the following default items:  
  
-   The application node. This node has the same name as the host application, such as **Word**, **Excel**, or **Outlook**. The application node contains the ThisAddIn code file. It also provides the **Namespace for Host Item** property. For more information about this property, see [Properties in Office Projects](../vsto/properties-in-office-projects.md).  
  
-   The ThisAddIn code file. This file contains the generated `ThisAddIn` class for your VSTO Add-in. For more information about this class, see [Programming VSTO Add-Ins](../vsto/programming-vsto-add-ins.md).  
  
-   Hidden project files that you are not intended to edit directly. For more information, see [Hidden Project Files](#hiddenfiles).  
  
### Temporary Certificates  
 Office projects also include a temporary certificate named *Project Name*_TemporaryKey.pfx. This certificate is used to sign the application and deployment manifests for the project during development. For more information, see [Granting Trust to Office Solutions](../vsto/granting-trust-to-office-solutions.md) and [Securing Office Solutions](../vsto/securing-office-solutions.md).  
  
###  <a name="hiddenfiles"></a> Hidden Project Files  
 Several project files are hidden by default. These files are generated by Visual Studio, and they differ by project type. To display the hidden files, click **Show All Files** in **Solution Explorer**.  
  
 Do not modify the hidden project files. Changing these files directly is not supported, and might corrupt your project. The hidden project files are regenerated whenever certain changes occur in the document. If you make manual changes to a hidden project file, those changes are lost when the file is regenerated.  
  
## Document Designer in Document-Level Projects  
 Document-level projects for Excel and Word provide a designer that hosts the document that is associated with your project in Visual Studio. The designer enables you to modify the document without having to go outside the Visual Studio environment.  
  
 To open a document in the designer, double-click the code file in **Solution Explorer** that is associated with the document. For example, to open the worksheet **Sheet1** in the designer in an Excel project, double-click the **Sheet1** code file.  
  
 When you modify the document in the designer, you can leverage the native functionality of the Office application. For example, you can type text in the document or a worksheet, or you can use the Ribbon to perform tasks like adding a table or chart. By default, keyboard shortcut mapping defaults to the Visual Studio mapping. To use Office keyboard shortcut mappings instead, change the settings under the **Microsoft Office Keyboard Settings** node in the **Options** dialog box on the **Tools** menu.  
  
### Controls on Documents  
 You can drag *host controls* and Windows Forms controls from the Visual Studio **Toolbox** onto the document design surface. Host controls are specialized versions of Office objects, such as Word content controls and Excel ranges, that can be used in Office projects created by using Visual Studio. Host controls have additional features that are not available in the corresponding Office objects, such as data binding and additional events.  
  
 For more information, see [Host Items and Host Controls Overview](../vsto/host-items-and-host-controls-overview.md) and [Windows Forms Controls on Office Documents Overview](../vsto/windows-forms-controls-on-office-documents-overview.md).  
  
### Excel Worksheets and Workbooks in the Designer  
 When you open a worksheet in the designer, you can modify the worksheet in the same way that you can when it is open directly in Excel. If you double-click a worksheet cell, the cell changes to edit mode. If you double-click a cell that contains a host control, the code editor opens and Visual Studio generates the default event handler for the control. To navigate to other worksheets, you can click the worksheet tabs at the bottom of the designer.  
  
 When you open the workbook in the designer, there is no design surface. The design view for the workbook is a large component tray that fills the designer.  
  
 The workbook and each sheet in the workbook has an associated code file. Each code file contains a generated *host item* class that represents the workbook or sheet. For more information, see [Automating Excel by Using Extended Objects](../vsto/automating-excel-by-using-extended-objects.md).  
  
### Word Documents in the Designer  
 When you open the document in the designer, you can modify the document in the same way that you can when it is open directly in Word. If you double-click a word in the document, that word is selected. However, if the word is inside a host control, the code editor opens and Visual Studio generates the default event handler for the control.  
  
 The document has an associated code file. The code file contains a generated *host item* class that represents the document. For more information, see [Document Host Item](../vsto/document-host-item.md).  
  
### Design Mode vs. Run Time Mode  
 When a document is open in the Visual Studio environment, it is always in *design mode*. Some tasks, such as dragging a host control to the document surface, can be performed only design mode.  
  
 To view the document in *run-time mode*, you must open the application and the document outside Visual Studio. You can also build and run the project, which will automatically open the document and application outside Visual Studio.  
  
## Code Editor  
 The Code Editor enables you to view and modify the visible code files in your solution. These files contain the code that defines the behavior of your solution.  
  
 For more information about the Code Editor, see [Writing Code in the Code and Text Editor](/visualstudio/ide/writing-code-in-the-code-and-text-editor). For more information about how to write code in Office projects, see [Writing Code in Office Solutions](../vsto/writing-code-in-office-solutions.md).  
  
## Properties Window  
 The **Properties** window displays properties for project items that are selected in **Solution Explorer**, and for UI elements that are selected in the designer, such as controls or the document in a document-level project. Some properties are specific to the application and document, and some properties are the same across all projects.  
  
## Data Sources Window  
 You can use the **Data Sources** window in document-level Office projects to drag a data source onto your document and create a control that is bound to the data source. For more information, see [Bind controls to data in Visual Studio](/visualstudio/data-tools/bind-controls-to-data-in-visual-studio).  
  
## See Also  
 [Designing and Creating Office Solutions](../vsto/designing-and-creating-office-solutions.md)   
 [Office Project Templates Overview](../vsto/office-project-templates-overview.md)   
 [How to: Create Office Projects in Visual Studio](../vsto/how-to-create-office-projects-in-visual-studio.md)   
 [Properties in Office Projects](../vsto/properties-in-office-projects.md)  
  
  