docs/javascript/compile-typescript-code-npm.md, before:

---
title: Compile and build TypeScript code using npm
description: Add TypeScript support to your Visual Studio projects by using the Node Package Manager (npm) package for portability across different platforms and environments.
ms.date: 10/23/2023
ms.topic: conceptual
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: javascript-typescript
dev_langs:
  - JavaScript
---
# Compile TypeScript code (Node.js)

::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
Use the TypeScript npm package to add TypeScript support to projects based on the [JavaScript Project System (JSPS)](../javascript/javascript-in-visual-studio.md#project-templates), or *.esproj*. Starting in Visual Studio 2019, it's recommended that you use the npm package instead of the TypeScript SDK. The TypeScript npm package provides greater portability across different platforms and environments.
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2019"
Use the TypeScript npm package to add TypeScript support to Node.js projects (.njsproj). Starting in Visual Studio 2019, it's recommended that you use the npm package instead of the TypeScript SDK. The TypeScript npm package provides greater portability across different platforms and environments.
::: moniker-end

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For ASP.NET Core projects, use the [NuGet package](../javascript/compile-typescript-code-nuget.md) instead of npm to add TypeScript support.

## Add TypeScript support using npm

The [TypeScript npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/typescript) adds TypeScript support. When the npm package for TypeScript 2.1 or higher is installed into your project, the corresponding version of the TypeScript language service gets loaded in the editor.

1. Check if you need to install any development workload for Visual Studio or the Node.js runtime.

   ::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
   For projects created using the JavaScript Project System (JSPS), or *.esproj*, no additional workloads are needed. You just need to install npm (https://www.npmjs.com/), which is included with Node.js.

   For the older project type (.njsproj), you need to install the Node.js development workload and the Node.js runtime.
   ::: moniker-end

   ::: moniker range="vs-2019"
   [Follow instructions](./tutorial-nodejs.md?toc=%252fvisualstudio%252fjavascript%252ftoc.json) to install the Node.js development workload and npm (https://www.npmjs.com/), which is included with Node.js.

   For a simple Visual Studio integration, create your project using one of the Node.js TypeScript templates, such as the Blank Node.js Web Application template. Else, use either a Node.js JavaScript template included with Visual Studio and follow instructions here. Or, use an [Open Folder](../javascript/develop-javascript-code-without-solutions-projects.md) project.
   ::: moniker-end

1. If your project doesn't already include it, install the [TypeScript npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/typescript).

   From Solution Explorer (right pane), open the *package.json* in the project root. The packages listed correspond to packages under the npm node in Solution Explorer. For more information, see [Manage npm packages](../javascript/npm-package-management.md).

   For a Node.js project, you can install the TypeScript npm package using the command line or the IDE. To install using the IDE, right-click the npm node in Solution Explorer, choose **Install New npm package**, search for **TypeScript**, and install the package.

   Check the **npm** option in the **Output** window to see package installation progress. The installed package shows up under the **npm** node in Solution Explorer.

1. If your project doesn't already include it, add a *tsconfig.json* file to your project root. To add the file, right-click the project node and choose **Add > New Item**. Choose the **TypeScript JSON Configuration File**, and then click **Add**.

   If you don't see all the item templates, choose **Show All Templates**, and then choose the item template.

   Visual Studio adds the *tsconfig.json* file to the project root. You can use this file to [configure options](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) for the TypeScript compiler.

1. Open *tsconfig.json* and update to set the compiler options that you want.

   An example of a simple *tsconfig.json* file follows.

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "noImplicitAny": false,
       "noEmitOnError": true,
       "removeComments": false,
       "sourceMap": true,
       "target": "es5",
       "outDir": "dist"
     },
     "include": [
       "scripts/**/*"
     ]
   }
   ```

   In this example:
   - *include* tells the compiler where to find TypeScript (*.ts) files.
   - *outDir* option specifies the output folder for the plain JavaScript files that are transpiled by the TypeScript compiler.
   - *sourceMap* option indicates whether the compiler generates *sourceMap* files.

   The previous configuration provides only a basic introduction to configuring TypeScript. For information on other options, see [tsconfig.json](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html).

## Build the application

1. Add TypeScript (*.ts*) or TypeScript JSX (*.tsx*) files to your project, and then add TypeScript code. A simple example of TypeScript follows:

   ```typescript
   let message: string = 'Hello World';
   console.log(message);
   ```

1. In *package.json*, add support for Visual Studio build and clean commands using the following scripts.

   ```json
   "scripts": {
     "build": "tsc --build",
     "clean": "tsc --build --clean"
   },
   ```

   To build using a third-party tool like webpack, you can add a command-line build script to your *package.json* file:

   ```json
   "scripts": {
      "build": "webpack-cli app.tsx --config webpack-config.js"
   }
   ```

   ::: moniker range="vs-2019"
   For an example of using webpack with React and a webpack configuration file, see [Create a web app with Node.js and React](../javascript/tutorial-nodejs-with-react-and-jsx.md).

   For an example of using Vue.js with TypeScript, see [Create a Vue.js application](create-application-with-vuejs.md).
   ::: moniker-end

1. If you need to configure options such as the startup page, path to the Node.js runtime, application port, or runtime arguments, right-click the project node in Solution Explorer, and choose **Properties**.

   >[!NOTE]
   > When configuring third-party tools, Node.js projects don't use the paths that are configured under **Tools** > **Options** > **Projects and solutions** > **Web Package Management** > **External Web Tools**. These settings are used for other project types.

1. Choose **Build > Build Solution**.

   The app builds automatically when you run it. However, the following might occur during the build process:

   If you generated source maps, open the folder specified in the *outDir* option and you find the generated \*.js file(s) along with the generated \*js.map file(s).

   Source map files are required for [debugging](../javascript/debug-nodejs.md).

### Run the application

::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
For instructions to run the app after you compile it, see [Create a Node.js and Express app](../javascript/tutorial-nodejs.md#start-your-app).
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2019"
Press **Ctrl+F5** (or **Debug > Start Without Debugging**) to run the application.
::: moniker-end

## Automate build tasks

You can use Task Runner Explorer in Visual Studio to help automate tasks for third-party tools like npm and webpack.

- [NPM Task Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.NPMTaskRunner) - Adds support for npm scripts defined in *package.json*. Supports yarn.
- [Webpack Task Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.WebPackTaskRunner) - Adds support for webpack.

## Related content

[Properties, React, Angular, Vue](../ide/reference/property-pages-javascript-esproj.md)

Commit message:

Clarify supported features for esproj and update links

docs/javascript/compile-typescript-code-npm.md, after:

---
title: Compile and build TypeScript code using npm
description: Add TypeScript support to your Visual Studio projects by using the Node Package Manager (npm) package for portability across different platforms and environments.
ms.date: 5/15/2025
ms.topic: conceptual
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: javascript-typescript
dev_langs:
  - JavaScript
---
# Compile TypeScript code (Node.js)

::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
Use the TypeScript npm package to add TypeScript support to projects based on the [JavaScript Project System (JSPS)](../javascript/javascript-in-visual-studio.md#project-templates), or *.esproj*. Starting in Visual Studio 2019, it's recommended that you use the npm package instead of the TypeScript SDK. The TypeScript npm package provides greater portability across different platforms and environments.
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2019"
Use the TypeScript npm package to add TypeScript support to Node.js projects (.njsproj). Starting in Visual Studio 2019, it's recommended that you use the npm package instead of the TypeScript SDK. The TypeScript npm package provides greater portability across different platforms and environments.
::: moniker-end

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For ASP.NET Core projects, use the [NuGet package](../javascript/compile-typescript-code-nuget.md) instead of npm to add TypeScript support.

## Add TypeScript support using npm

The [TypeScript npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/typescript) adds TypeScript support. When the npm package for TypeScript 2.1 or higher is installed into your project, the corresponding version of the TypeScript language service gets loaded in the editor.

1. Check if you need to install any development workload for Visual Studio or the Node.js runtime.

   ::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
   For projects created using the JavaScript Project System (JSPS), or *.esproj*, no additional workloads are needed. You just need to install npm (https://www.npmjs.com/), which is included with Node.js.
   ::: moniker-end

   ::: moniker range="vs-2019"
   For the Node.js project type (.njsproj), you need to install the Node.js development workload and the Node.js runtime.

   [Follow instructions](./tutorial-nodejs.md?toc=%252fvisualstudio%252fjavascript%252ftoc.json) to install the Node.js development workload and npm (https://www.npmjs.com/), which is included with Node.js.

   For a simple Visual Studio integration, create your project using one of the Node.js TypeScript templates, such as the Blank Node.js Web Application template. Else, use either a Node.js JavaScript template included with Visual Studio and follow instructions here. Or, use an [Open Folder](../javascript/develop-javascript-code-without-solutions-projects.md) project.
   ::: moniker-end

1. If your project doesn't already include it, install the [TypeScript npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/typescript).

   From Solution Explorer (right pane), open the *package.json* in the project root. The packages listed correspond to packages under the npm node in Solution Explorer. For more information, see [Manage npm packages](../javascript/npm-package-management.md).

   ::: moniker range="vs-2019"
   For the older Node.js project type, you can install the TypeScript npm package using the command line or the IDE. To install using the IDE, right-click the npm node in Solution Explorer, choose **Install New npm package**, search for **TypeScript**, and install the package.
   ::: moniker-end

   Check the **npm** option in the **Output** window to see package installation progress. The installed package shows up under the **npm** node in Solution Explorer.

1. If your project doesn't already include it, add a *tsconfig.json* file to your project root. To add the file, right-click the project node and choose **Add > New Item**. Choose the **TypeScript JSON Configuration File**, and then click **Add**.

   If you don't see all the item templates, choose **Show All Templates**, and then choose the item template.

   Visual Studio adds the *tsconfig.json* file to the project root. You can use this file to [configure options](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) for the TypeScript compiler.

1. Open *tsconfig.json* and update to set the compiler options that you want.

   An example of a simple *tsconfig.json* file follows.

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "noImplicitAny": false,
       "noEmitOnError": true,
       "removeComments": false,
       "sourceMap": true,
       "target": "es5",
       "outDir": "dist"
     },
     "include": [
       "scripts/**/*"
     ]
   }
   ```

   In this example:
   - *include* tells the compiler where to find TypeScript (*.ts) files.
   - *outDir* option specifies the output folder for the plain JavaScript files that are transpiled by the TypeScript compiler.
   - *sourceMap* option indicates whether the compiler generates *sourceMap* files.

   The previous configuration provides only a basic introduction to configuring TypeScript. For information on other options, see [tsconfig.json](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html).

## Build the application

1. Add TypeScript (*.ts*) or TypeScript JSX (*.tsx*) files to your project, and then add TypeScript code. A simple example of TypeScript follows:

   ```typescript
   let message: string = 'Hello World';
   console.log(message);
   ```

1. In *package.json*, add support for Visual Studio build and clean commands using the following scripts.

   ```json
   "scripts": {
     "build": "tsc --build",
     "clean": "tsc --build --clean"
   },
   ```

   To build using a third-party tool like webpack, you can add a command-line build script to your *package.json* file:

   ```json
   "scripts": {
      "build": "webpack-cli app.tsx --config webpack-config.js"
   }
   ```

   ::: moniker range="vs-2019"
   For an example of using webpack with React and a webpack configuration file, see [Create a web app with Node.js and React](../javascript/tutorial-nodejs-with-react-and-jsx.md).

   For an example of using Vue.js with TypeScript, see [Create a Vue.js application](create-application-with-vuejs.md).
   ::: moniker-end

1. If you need to configure build and deployment options such as the app URL or runtime commands, right-click the project node in Solution Explorer, and choose **Properties**.

   ::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
   >[!NOTE]
   > When configuring third-party tools, projects using the JavaScript Project System (JSPS), or *.esproj*, don't use the paths that are configured under **Tools** > **Options** > **Projects and solutions** > **Web Package Management** > **External Web Tools**. These settings are used for other project types.
   ::: moniker-end

   ::: moniker range="vs-2019"
   >[!NOTE]
   > When configuring third-party tools, Node.js projects don't use the paths that are configured under **Tools** > **Options** > **Projects and solutions** > **Web Package Management** > **External Web Tools**. These settings are used for other project types.
   ::: moniker-end

1. Choose **Build > Build Solution**.

   The app builds automatically when you run it. However, the following might occur during the build process:

   If you generated source maps, open the folder specified in the *outDir* option and you find the generated \*.js file(s) along with the generated \*js.map file(s).

   Source map files are required for [debugging](../javascript/debug-nodejs.md).

### Run the application

::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
For instructions to run the app after you compile it, see [Create a Node.js and Express app](../javascript/tutorial-nodejs.md#start-your-app).
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2019"
Press **Ctrl+F5** (or **Debug > Start Without Debugging**) to run the application.
::: moniker-end

## Automate build tasks

You can use Task Runner Explorer in Visual Studio to help automate tasks for third-party tools like npm and webpack.

::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"
- [NPM Task Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.NpmTaskRunner64) - Adds support for npm scripts defined in *package.json*. Supports yarn.
- [Webpack Task Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.WebPackTaskRunner) - Adds support for webpack.
::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2019"
- [NPM Task Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.NPMTaskRunner) - Adds support for npm scripts defined in *package.json*. Supports yarn.
- [Webpack Task Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.WebPackTaskRunner) - Adds support for webpack.
::: moniker-end

## Related content

[Properties, React, Angular, Vue](../ide/reference/property-pages-javascript-esproj.md)
