docs/javascript/tutorial-asp-net-core-with-react.md, before:

---
title: "Create an ASP.NET Core app with React"
description: Create an ASP.NET Core project to serve as an API backend and a React project to provide the user interface in Visual Studio.
ms.date: 11/06/2024
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.devlang: javascript
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: javascript-typescript
dev_langs:
  - JavaScript
monikerRange: '>= vs-2022'
---
# Tutorial: Create an ASP.NET Core app with React in Visual Studio

In this article, you learn how to build an ASP.NET Core project to act as an API backend and a React project to act as the UI.

Currently, Visual Studio includes ASP.NET Core Single Page Application (SPA) templates that support Angular and React. The templates provide a built-in Client App folder in your ASP.NET Core projects that contains the base files and folders of each framework.

You can use the method described in this article to create ASP.NET Core Single Page Applications that:

- Put the client app in a separate project, outside from the ASP.NET Core project
- Create the client project based on the framework CLI installed on your computer

> [!NOTE]
> This article describes the project creation process using the updated template in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.11, which uses the Vite CLI. Vite determines the version of React using project dependencies, such as those configured in *package.json*.

## Prerequisites

- Visual Studio 2022 version 17.11 or later with the **ASP.NET and web development** workload installed. Go to the [Visual Studio downloads](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/?cid=learn-onpage-download-cta) page to install it for free.
  If you need to install the workload and already have Visual Studio, go to **Tools** > **Get Tools and Features...**, which opens the Visual Studio Installer. Choose the **ASP.NET and web development** workload, then choose **Modify**.
- npm ([`https://www.npmjs.com/`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm)), which is included with Node.js

## Create the frontend app

1. In the Start window, select **Create a new project**. <!-- Avoid parenthetical clauses. https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/localization-mt-guidance?branch=main-->

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/create-new-project.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Create a new project.":::

1. Search for React in the search bar at the top and then select **React and ASP.NET Core**. This template is a JavaScript template.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/react-choose-template.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing choosing a template.":::

1. Name the project **ReactWithASP** and then select **Next**.

   In the Additional Information dialog, make sure that **Configure for HTTPS** is enabled. In most scenarios, leave the other settings at the default values.

1. Select **Create**.

   Solution Explorer shows the following project information:

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-with-react-solution-explorer.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Solution Explorer.":::

   Compared to the [standalone React template](../javascript/tutorial-create-react-app.md), you see some new and modified files for integration with ASP.NET Core:

   - vite.config.js
   - App.js (modified)
   - App.test.js (modified)

1. Select an installed browser from the Debug toolbar, such as Chrome or Microsoft Edge.

   If the browser you want is not yet installed, install the browser first, and then select it.

## Set the project properties

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **ReactWithASP.Server** project and choose **Properties**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-project-properties-react.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Open project properties."::: 

1. In the Properties page, open the **Debug** tab and select **Open debug launch profiles UI** option. Uncheck the **Launch Browser** option for the **https** profile or the profile named after the ASP.NET Core project, if present.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-deselect-launch-browser-react.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Debug launch profiles UI."::: 

   This value prevents opening the web page with the source weather data.

   >[!NOTE]
   > In Visual Studio, `launch.json` stores the startup settings associated with the **Start** button in the Debug toolbar. Currently, `launch.json` must be located under the `.vscode` folder.

1. Right-click the solution in Solution Explorer and select **Properties**. Verify that the Startup project settings are set to **Multiple projects**, and that the Action for both projects is set to **Start**.

## Start the project

Press **F5** or select the **Start** button at the top of the window to start the app. Two command prompts appear:

- The ASP.NET Core API project running
- The Vite CLI showing a message such as `VITE v4.4.9 ready in 780 ms`

   >[!NOTE]
   > Check console output for messages. For example there might be a message to update Node.js.

The React app appears and is populated via the API (the localhost port may vary from the screenshot).

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-weather-forecast-app.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the weather forecast app.":::

If you don't see the app, see [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting).

## Publish the project

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **ReactWithASP.Server** project and select **Add** > **Project Reference**.

   Make sure the **reactwithasp.client** project is selected.

1. Choose **OK**.

1. Right-click the ASP.NET Core project again and select **Edit Project File**.

   This opens the `.csproj` file for the project.

1. In the `.csproj` file, make sure the project reference includes a `<ReferenceOutputAssembly>` element with the value set to `false`.

   This reference should look like the following.

   ```xml
    <ProjectReference Include="..\reactwithasp.client\reactwithasp.client.esproj">
      <ReferenceOutputAssembly>false</ReferenceOutputAssembly>
    </ProjectReference>
   ```

1. Right-click the ASP.NET Core project and choose **Reload Project** if that option is available.

1. In *Program.cs*, make sure the following code is present.

   ```csharp
   app.UseDefaultFiles();
   app.UseStaticFiles();

   // Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
   if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
   {
      app.UseSwagger();
      app.UseSwaggerUI();
   }
   ```

1. To publish, right click the ASP.NET Core project, choose **Publish**, and select options to match your desired publish scenario, such as Azure, publish to a folder, etc.

   The publish process takes more time than it does for just an ASP.NET Core project, since the `npm run build` command gets invoked when publishing. The [BuildCommand](../javascript/javascript-project-system-msbuild-reference.md#buildcommand) runs `npm run build` by default.

   If you publish to a folder, see [ASP.NET Core directory structure](/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/directory-structure) for more information on the files added to the *publish* folder.

## Troubleshooting

### Proxy error

You may see the following error:

```cmd
[HPM] Error occurred while trying to proxy request /weatherforecast from localhost:4200 to https://localhost:7183 (ECONNREFUSED) (https://nodejs.org/api/errors.html#errors_common_system_errors)
```

If you see this issue, most likely the frontend started before the backend.

- Once you see the backend command prompt up and running, just refresh the React app in the browser.
- Also, verify that the backend is configured to start before the front end. To verify, select the solution in Solution Explorer, choose **Properties** from the **Project menu**. Next, select **Configure Startup Projects** and make sure that the backend ASP.NET Core project is first in the list. If it's not first, select the project and use the Up arrow button to make it the first project in the launch list.

### Verify ports

If the weather data doesn't load correctly, you may also need to verify that your ports are correct.

1. Make sure that the port numbers match. Go to the `launchSettings.json` file in the ASP.NET Core **ReactWithASP.Server** project (in the *Properties* folder). Get the port number from the `applicationUrl` property.

   If there are multiple `applicationUrl` properties, look for one using an `https` endpoint. It looks similar to `https://localhost:7183`.

1. Open the `vite.config.js` file for the React project. Update the `target` property to match the `applicationUrl` property in *launchSettings.json*. The updated value looks similar to the following:

   ```js
   target: 'https://localhost:7183/',
   ```

### Privacy error

You may see the following certificate error:

```
Your connection isn't private
```

Try deleting the React certificates from *%appdata%\local\asp.net\https* or *%appdata%\roaming\asp.net\https*, and then retry.

## Docker

If you create the project with [Docker support](../containers/container-tools-react.md#prerequisites) enabled, take the following steps:

1. After the app loads, get the Docker HTTPS port using the [Containers window](../containers/container-tools-react.md#containers-window) in Visual Studio. Check the **Environment** or **Ports** tab.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-with-react-docker-container-ports.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Docker container ports."::: 

1. Open the `vite.config.js` file for the React project. Update the `target` variable to match the HTTPS port in the Containers window. For example, in the following code:

   ```js
   const target = env.ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT ? `https://localhost:${env.ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT}` :
      env.ASPNETCORE_URLS ? env.ASPNETCORE_URLS.split(';')[0] : 'https://localhost:7143';
   ```

   change `https://localhost:7143` to the matching HTTPS port (in this example, `https://localhost:44307`).

1. Restart the app.

## Next steps

For more information about SPA applications in ASP.NET Core, see the React section under [Developing Single Page Apps](/aspnet/core/client-side/spa/intro?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true#developing-single-page-apps). The linked article provides additional context for project files such as *aspnetcore-https.js*, although details of the implementation are different based on the template differences. For example, instead of a ClientApp folder, the React files are contained in a separate project.

For MSBuild information specific to the client project, see [MSBuild properties for JSPS](../javascript/javascript-project-system-msbuild-reference.md).

Commit message:

added a note to the docker section in tutorial-asp-net-core-with-react.md
Added note on how to fix an issue with docker when HTTPS is enabled but the Container is missing the environment variable ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT.

docs/javascript/tutorial-asp-net-core-with-react.md, after:

---
title: "Create an ASP.NET Core app with React"
description: Create an ASP.NET Core project to serve as an API backend and a React project to provide the user interface in Visual Studio.
ms.date: 11/06/2024
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.devlang: javascript
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: javascript-typescript
dev_langs:
  - JavaScript
monikerRange: '>= vs-2022'
---
# Tutorial: Create an ASP.NET Core app with React in Visual Studio

In this article, you learn how to build an ASP.NET Core project to act as an API backend and a React project to act as the UI.

Currently, Visual Studio includes ASP.NET Core Single Page Application (SPA) templates that support Angular and React. The templates provide a built-in Client App folder in your ASP.NET Core projects that contains the base files and folders of each framework.

You can use the method described in this article to create ASP.NET Core Single Page Applications that:

- Put the client app in a separate project, outside from the ASP.NET Core project
- Create the client project based on the framework CLI installed on your computer

> [!NOTE]
> This article describes the project creation process using the updated template in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.11, which uses the Vite CLI. Vite determines the version of React using project dependencies, such as those configured in *package.json*.

## Prerequisites

- Visual Studio 2022 version 17.11 or later with the **ASP.NET and web development** workload installed. Go to the [Visual Studio downloads](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/?cid=learn-onpage-download-cta) page to install it for free.
  If you need to install the workload and already have Visual Studio, go to **Tools** > **Get Tools and Features...**, which opens the Visual Studio Installer. Choose the **ASP.NET and web development** workload, then choose **Modify**.
- npm ([`https://www.npmjs.com/`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm)), which is included with Node.js

## Create the frontend app

1. In the Start window, select **Create a new project**. <!-- Avoid parenthetical clauses. https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/localization-mt-guidance?branch=main-->

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/create-new-project.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Create a new project.":::

1. Search for React in the search bar at the top and then select **React and ASP.NET Core**. This template is a JavaScript template.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/react-choose-template.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing choosing a template.":::

1. Name the project **ReactWithASP** and then select **Next**.

   In the Additional Information dialog, make sure that **Configure for HTTPS** is enabled. In most scenarios, leave the other settings at the default values.

1. Select **Create**.

   Solution Explorer shows the following project information:

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-with-react-solution-explorer.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Solution Explorer.":::

   Compared to the [standalone React template](../javascript/tutorial-create-react-app.md), you see some new and modified files for integration with ASP.NET Core:

   - vite.config.js
   - App.js (modified)
   - App.test.js (modified)

1. Select an installed browser from the Debug toolbar, such as Chrome or Microsoft Edge.

   If the browser you want is not yet installed, install the browser first, and then select it.

## Set the project properties

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **ReactWithASP.Server** project and choose **Properties**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-project-properties-react.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Open project properties."::: 

1. In the Properties page, open the **Debug** tab and select **Open debug launch profiles UI** option. Uncheck the **Launch Browser** option for the **https** profile or the profile named after the ASP.NET Core project, if present.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-deselect-launch-browser-react.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Debug launch profiles UI."::: 

   This value prevents opening the web page with the source weather data.

   >[!NOTE]
   > In Visual Studio, `launch.json` stores the startup settings associated with the **Start** button in the Debug toolbar. Currently, `launch.json` must be located under the `.vscode` folder.

1. Right-click the solution in Solution Explorer and select **Properties**. Verify that the Startup project settings are set to **Multiple projects**, and that the Action for both projects is set to **Start**.

## Start the project

Press **F5** or select the **Start** button at the top of the window to start the app. Two command prompts appear:

- The ASP.NET Core API project running
- The Vite CLI showing a message such as `VITE v4.4.9 ready in 780 ms`

   >[!NOTE]
   > Check console output for messages. For example there might be a message to update Node.js.

The React app appears and is populated via the API (the localhost port may vary from the screenshot).

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-weather-forecast-app.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the weather forecast app.":::

If you don't see the app, see [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting).

## Publish the project

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **ReactWithASP.Server** project and select **Add** > **Project Reference**.

   Make sure the **reactwithasp.client** project is selected.

1. Choose **OK**.

1. Right-click the ASP.NET Core project again and select **Edit Project File**.

   This opens the `.csproj` file for the project.

1. In the `.csproj` file, make sure the project reference includes a `<ReferenceOutputAssembly>` element with the value set to `false`.

   This reference should look like the following.

   ```xml
    <ProjectReference Include="..\reactwithasp.client\reactwithasp.client.esproj">
      <ReferenceOutputAssembly>false</ReferenceOutputAssembly>
    </ProjectReference>
   ```

1. Right-click the ASP.NET Core project and choose **Reload Project** if that option is available.

1. In *Program.cs*, make sure the following code is present.

   ```csharp
   app.UseDefaultFiles();
   app.UseStaticFiles();

   // Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
   if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
   {
      app.UseSwagger();
      app.UseSwaggerUI();
   }
   ```

1. To publish, right click the ASP.NET Core project, choose **Publish**, and select options to match your desired publish scenario, such as Azure, publish to a folder, etc.

   The publish process takes more time than it does for just an ASP.NET Core project, since the `npm run build` command gets invoked when publishing. The [BuildCommand](../javascript/javascript-project-system-msbuild-reference.md#buildcommand) runs `npm run build` by default.

   If you publish to a folder, see [ASP.NET Core directory structure](/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/directory-structure) for more information on the files added to the *publish* folder.

## Troubleshooting

### Proxy error

You may see the following error:

```cmd
[HPM] Error occurred while trying to proxy request /weatherforecast from localhost:4200 to https://localhost:7183 (ECONNREFUSED) (https://nodejs.org/api/errors.html#errors_common_system_errors)
```

If you see this issue, most likely the frontend started before the backend.

- Once you see the backend command prompt up and running, just refresh the React app in the browser.
- Also, verify that the backend is configured to start before the front end. To verify, select the solution in Solution Explorer, choose **Properties** from the **Project menu**. Next, select **Configure Startup Projects** and make sure that the backend ASP.NET Core project is first in the list. If it's not first, select the project and use the Up arrow button to make it the first project in the launch list.

### Verify ports

If the weather data doesn't load correctly, you may also need to verify that your ports are correct.

1. Make sure that the port numbers match. Go to the `launchSettings.json` file in the ASP.NET Core **ReactWithASP.Server** project (in the *Properties* folder). Get the port number from the `applicationUrl` property.

   If there are multiple `applicationUrl` properties, look for one using an `https` endpoint. It looks similar to `https://localhost:7183`.

1. Open the `vite.config.js` file for the React project. Update the `target` property to match the `applicationUrl` property in *launchSettings.json*. The updated value looks similar to the following:

   ```js
   target: 'https://localhost:7183/',
   ```

### Privacy error

You may see the following certificate error:

```
Your connection isn't private
```

Try deleting the React certificates from *%appdata%\local\asp.net\https* or *%appdata%\roaming\asp.net\https*, and then retry.

## Docker

If you create the project with [Docker support](../containers/container-tools-react.md#prerequisites) enabled, take the following steps:

1. After the app loads, get the Docker HTTPS port using the [Containers window](../containers/container-tools-react.md#containers-window) in Visual Studio. Check the **Environment** or **Ports** tab.

   :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/asp-net-core-with-react-docker-container-ports.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Docker container ports.":::

> [!NOTE]
> If you do not see the Environment Name `ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT` this will need to be added manually via the **launchSettings.json** file, look for the Section `Container (Dockerfile)` and after `"useSSL": true` add `"sslPort": <any port>` in this example it would be: `"sslPort": 44307` 

2. Open the `vite.config.js` file for the React project. Update the `target` variable to match the HTTPS port in the Containers window. For example, in the following code:

   ```js
   const target = env.ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT ? `https://localhost:${env.ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORT}` :
      env.ASPNETCORE_URLS ? env.ASPNETCORE_URLS.split(';')[0] : 'https://localhost:7143';
   ```

   change `https://localhost:7143` to the matching HTTPS port (in this example, `https://localhost:44307`).

1. Restart the app.

## Next steps

For more information about SPA applications in ASP.NET Core, see the React section under [Developing Single Page Apps](/aspnet/core/client-side/spa/intro?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true#developing-single-page-apps). The linked article provides additional context for project files such as *aspnetcore-https.js*, although details of the implementation are different based on the template differences. For example, instead of a ClientApp folder, the React files are contained in a separate project.

For MSBuild information specific to the client project, see [MSBuild properties for JSPS](../javascript/javascript-project-system-msbuild-reference.md).
