docs/deployment/includes/import-publish-settings-vs.md, before:


1. On the computer where you have the ASP.NET project open in Visual Studio, right-click the project in Solution Explorer, and choose **Publish**.

   If you have previously configured any publishing profiles, the **Publish** pane appears. Click **New** or **Create new profile**.

1. Select the option to import a profile.

   In the **Publish** dialog box, click **Import Profile**.

   ![Choose Publish](../../deployment/media/tutorial-publish-tool-import-profile.png)

1. Navigate to the location of the publish settings file that you created in the previous section.

1. In the **Import Publish Settings File** dialog, navigate to and select the profile that you created in the previous section, and click **Open**.

   Click **Finish** to save the publishing profile, and then click **Publish**.

   Visual Studio begins the deployment process, and the Output window shows progress and results.

   If you get an any deployment errors, click **More Actions** > **Edit** to edit settings. Modify settings and click **Validate** to test new settings. If the host name is not found, try the IP address instead of the host name in both the **Server** and **Destination URL** fields.

   ![Edit settings in the Publish tool](../../deployment/media/tutorial-configure-publish-settings-in-tool.png)

Commit message:

Update tutorial date and clarify IIS settings (#14388)
* Update tutorial date and clarify IIS settings

Updated the date for the tutorial and clarified the Application pool setting for ASP.NET Core in IIS.

* Clarify ASP.NET Core installation requirements

* Clarify IIS version requirement in deployment tutorial

Updated tutorial to specify IIS 10 for Windows Server 2022.

* Update docs/deployment/tutorial-import-publish-settings-iis.md

* update for Windows Server 2022 UI change

* Add metadata to include files

* Acrolinx

* Acrolinx

docs/deployment/includes/import-publish-settings-vs.md, after:

---
title: Import publish settings in Visual Studio
author: ghogen
description: Learn how to import publish settings in Visual Studio
ms.author: ghogen
ms.date: 10/3/2025
ms.subservice: deployment
ms.topic: include
---
1. On the computer where you have the ASP.NET project open in Visual Studio, right-click the project in Solution Explorer, and choose **Publish**.

   If you previously configured any publishing profiles, the **Publish** pane appears. Click **New** or **Create new profile**.

1. Select the option to import a profile.

   In the **Publish** dialog box, click **Import Profile**.

   ![Choose Publish](../../deployment/media/tutorial-publish-tool-import-profile.png)

1. Navigate to the location of the publish settings file that you created in the previous section.

1. In the **Import Publish Settings File** dialog, navigate to and select the profile that you created in the previous section, and click **Open**.

   Click **Finish** to save the publishing profile, and then click **Publish**.

   Visual Studio begins the deployment process, and the Output window shows progress and results.

   If you get any deployment errors, click **More Actions** > **Edit** to edit settings. Modify settings and click **Validate** to test new settings. If the host name isn't found, try the IP address instead of the host name in both the **Server** and **Destination URL** fields.

   ![Edit settings in the Publish tool](../../deployment/media/tutorial-configure-publish-settings-in-tool.png)
