---
title: "Performance Report Views | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: "vs-ide-debug"
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "reports, profiling tools"
  - "profiling tools reports"
  - "profiling tools, report views"
ms.assetid: 3e84e513-dc64-40bb-b385-03281f28b519
caps.latest.revision: 29
author: MikeJo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
---
# Performance Report Views
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

This section provides reference information for the reports and views of [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../includes/vsprvs-md.md)] Profiling Tools. Views of profiling data files are displayed in the [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../includes/vs-current-short-md.md)] integrated development environmentIDE. Reports are generated by the [VSPerfReport](../profiling/vsperfreport.md) command-line tool.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Common Data Views](../profiling/common-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are common to all profiling methods.  
  
 [Sampling Method Data Views](../profiling/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Instrumentation Method Data Views](../profiling/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
 [.NET Memory Data Views](../profiling/dotnet-memory-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that include .NET memory data.  
  
 [Resource Contention Data Views](../profiling/resource-contention-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method.  
  
 [Concurrency Visualizer](../profiling/concurrency-visualizer.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method and that include thread execution data.  
  
 [Tier Interactions View](../profiling/tier-interactions-view.md)  
 Reference information for the Interaction view and report of profiling data files that include tier interaction data.  
  
## See Also  
 [Analyzing Performance Tools Data](../profiling/analyzing-performance-tools-data.md)
