---
title: "Profiler Sampling Method Data Views | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: "vs-ide-debug"
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Profiling Tools,sampling data views"
  - "sampling data views"
ms.assetid: 798de693-e43a-4056-aff5-48310c2172c5
caps.latest.revision: 18
author: MikeJo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
---
# Profiler Sampling Method Data Views
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.  
  
> [!NOTE]
> Enhanced security features in Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 required significant changes in the way the Visual Studio profiler collects data on these platforms. Windows Store apps also require new collection techniques. See [Performance Tools on Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 applications](../profiling/performance-tools-on-windows-8-and-windows-server-2012-applications.md).  
  
## In This Section  
 [Summary View](../profiling/summary-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists the functions that were executing most frequently when samples were collected and the functions that were performing the most individual work.  
  
 [Call Tree View](../profiling/call-tree-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Displays the execution paths of functions in a hierarchical tree.  
  
 [Modules View](../profiling/modules-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists the functions, source code lines, and instructions that were executing when samples were collected.  
  
 [Caller / Callee View - Sampling Data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Displays profiling data for a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.  
  
 [Functions View](../profiling/functions-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Organizes profiling by function, and lists the functions that were executing when samples were collected.  
  
 [Lines View](../profiling/lines-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists the source code lines that were executing when samples were collected.  
  
 [Instruction Pointers (IPs) View](../profiling/instruction-pointers-ips-view-sampling-data.md)  
 Lists the source code lines that were executing when samples were collected.  
  
## Reference  
 [Process View](../profiling/process-view.md)  
 Lists process and thread start and end times.  
  
 [Marks View](../profiling/marks-view.md)  
 Lists ETW and sampling events that were inserted into a profiling data file.  
  
 [Function Details View](../profiling/function-details-view.md)  
 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [Instrumentation Method Data Views](../profiling/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
 [.NET Memory Data Views](../profiling/dotnet-memory-data-views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that include .NET memory data.  
  
## See Also  
 [Understanding Sampling Data Values](../profiling/understanding-sampling-data-values.md)
