---
title: "Building ClickOnce Applications from the Command Line | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: "vs-ide-deployment"
ms.topic: conceptual
dev_langs: 
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
  - "C++"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "ClickOnce deployment, from command line"
  - "publishing"
  - "publishing, ClickOnce"
ms.assetid: d9bc6212-c584-4f72-88c9-9a4b998c555e
caps.latest.revision: 25
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jillfra
---
# Building ClickOnce Applications from the Command Line
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

In [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../includes/vs-current-short-md.md)], you can build projects from the command line, even if they are created in the integrated development environment (IDE). In fact, you can rebuild a project created with [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../includes/vs-current-short-md.md)] on another computer that has only the [!INCLUDE[dnprdnshort](../includes/dnprdnshort-md.md)] installed. This allows you to reproduce a build using an automated process, for example, in a central build lab or using advanced scripting techniques beyond the scope of building the project itself.  
  
## Using MSBuild to Reproduce ClickOnce Application Deployments  
 When you invoke msbuild /target:publish at the command line, it tells the MSBuild system to build the project and create a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application in the publish folder. This is equivalent to selecting the **Publish** command in the IDE.  
  
 This command executes msbuild.exe, which is on the path in the Visual Studio command-prompt environment.  
  
 A "target" is an indicator to MSBuild on how to process the command. The key targets are the "build" target and the "publish" target. The build target is the equivalent to selecting the Build command (or pressing F5) in the IDE. If you only want to build your project, you can achieve that by typing `msbuild`. This command works because the build target is the default target for all projects generated by [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../includes/vs-current-short-md.md)]. This means you do not explicitly need to specify the build target. Therefore, typing `msbuild` is the same operation as typing `msbuild /target:build`.  
  
 The `/target:publish` command tells MSBuild to invoke the publish target. The publish target depends on the build target. This means that the publish operation is a superset of the build operation. For example, if you made a change to one of your Visual Basic or C# source files, the corresponding assembly would automatically be rebuilt by the publish operation.  
  
 For information on generating a full [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] deployment using the Mage.exe command-line tool to create your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] manifest, see [Walkthrough: Manually Deploying a ClickOnce Application](../deployment/walkthrough-manually-deploying-a-clickonce-application.md).  
  
## Creating and Building a Basic ClickOnce Application Using MSBuild  
  
#### To create and publish a ClickOnce project  
  
1. Click **New Project** from the **File** menu. The **New Project** dialog box appears.  
  
2. Select **Windows Application** and name it `CmdLineDemo`.  
  
3. From the **Build** menu, click the **Publish** command.  
  
    This step ensures that the project is properly configured to produce a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application deployment.  
  
    The Publish Wizard appears.  
  
4. In the Publish Wizard, click **Finish**.  
  
    Visual Studio generates and displays the default Web page, called Publish.htm.  
  
5. Save your project, and make note of the folder location in which it is stored.  
  
   The steps above create a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] project which has been published for the first time. Now you can reproduce the build outside of the IDE.  
  
#### To reproduce the build from the command line  
  
1. Exit [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../includes/vs-current-short-md.md)].  
  
2. From the Windows **Start** menu, click **All Programs**, then **Microsoft Visual Studio**, then **Visual Studio Tools**, then **Visual Studio Command Prompt**. This should open a command prompt in the root folder of the current user.  
  
3. In the **Visual Studio Command Prompt**, change the current directory to the location of the project you just built above. For example, type `chdir My Documents\Visual Studio\Projects\CmdLineDemo`.  
  
4. To remove the existing files produced in "To create and publish a [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] project," type `rmdir /s publish`.  
  
    This step is optional, but it ensures that the new files were all produced by the command-line build.  
  
5. Type `msbuild /target:publish`.  
  
   The above steps will produce a full [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application deployment in a subfolder of your project named **Publish**. CmdLineDemo.application is the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] deployment manifest. The folder CmdLineDemo_1.0.0.0 contains the files CmdLineDemo.exe and CmdLineDemo.exe.manifest, the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application manifest. Setup.exe is the bootstrapper, which by default is configured to install the [!INCLUDE[dnprdnshort](../includes/dnprdnshort-md.md)]. The DotNetFX folder contains the redistributables for the [!INCLUDE[dnprdnshort](../includes/dnprdnshort-md.md)]. This is the entire set of files you need to deploy your application over the Web or via UNC or CD/DVD.  
  
## Publishing Properties  
 When you publish the application in the above procedures, the following properties are inserted into your project file by the Publish Wizard. These properties directly influence how the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application is produced.  
  
 In CmdLineDemo.vbproj / CmdLineDemo.csproj:  
  
```  
<AssemblyOriginatorKeyFile>WindowsApplication3.snk</AssemblyOriginatorKeyFile>  
<GenerateManifests>true</GenerateManifests>  
<TargetZone>LocalIntranet</TargetZone>  
<PublisherName>Microsoft</PublisherName>  
<ProductName>CmdLineDemo</ProductName>  
<PublishUrl>http://localhost/CmdLineDemo</PublishUrl>  
<Install>true</Install>  
<ApplicationVersion>1.0.0.*</ApplicationVersion>  
<ApplicationRevision>1</ApplicationRevision>  
<UpdateEnabled>true</UpdateEnabled>  
<UpdateRequired>false</UpdateRequired>  
<UpdateMode>Foreground</UpdateMode>  
<UpdateInterval>7</UpdateInterval>  
<UpdateIntervalUnits>Days</UpdateIntervalUnits>  
<UpdateUrlEnabled>false</UpdateUrlEnabled>  
<IsWebBootstrapper>true</IsWebBootstrapper>  
<BootstrapperEnabled>true</BootstrapperEnabled>  
```  
  
 You can override any of these properties at the command line without altering the project file itself. For example, the following will build the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application deployment without the bootstrapper:  
  
```  
msbuild /target:publish /property:BootstrapperEnabled=false  
```  
  
 Publishing properties are controlled in [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../includes/vsprvs-md.md)] from the **Publish**, **Security**, and **Signing** property pages of the **Project Designer**. Below is a description of the publishing properties, along with an indication of how each is set in the various property pages of the application designer:  
  
- `AssemblyOriginatorKeyFile` determines the key file used to sign your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application manifests. This same key may also be used to assign a strong name to your assemblies. This property is set on the **Signing** page of the **Project Designer**.  
  
  The following properties are set on the **Security** page:  
  
- **Enable ClickOnce Security Settings** determines whether [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] manifests are generated. When a project is initially created, [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] manifest generation is off by default. The wizard will automatically turn this flag on when you publish for the first time.  
  
- **TargetZone** determines the level of trust to be emitted into your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application manifest. Possible values are "Internet", "LocalIntranet", and "Custom". Internet and LocalIntranet will cause a default permission set to be emitted into your [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application manifest. LocalIntranet is the default, and it basically means full trust. Custom specifies that only the permissions explicitly specified in the base app.manifest file are to be emitted into the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application manifest. The app.manifest file is a partial manifest file that contains just the trust information definitions. It is a hidden file, automatically added to your project when you configure permissions on the **Security** page.  
  
  The following properties are set on the **Publish** page:  
  
- `PublishUrl` is the location where the application will be published to in the IDE. It is inserted into the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application manifest if neither the `InstallUrl` or `UpdateUrl` property is specified.  
  
- `ApplicationVersion` specifies the version of the [!INCLUDE[ndptecclick](../includes/ndptecclick-md.md)] application. This is a four-digit version number. If the last digit is a "*", then the `ApplicationRevision` is substituted for the value inserted into the manifest at build time.  
  
- `ApplicationRevision` specifies the revision. This is an integer which increments each time you publish in the IDE. Notice that it is not automatically incremented for builds performed at the command-line.  
  
- `Install` determines whether the application is an installed application or a run-from-Web application.  
  
- `InstallUrl` (not shown) is the location where users will install the application from. If specified, this value is burned into the setup.exe bootstrapper if the `IsWebBootstrapper` property is enabled. It is also inserted into the application manifest if the `UpdateUrl` is not specified.  
  
- `SupportUrl` (not shown) is the location linked in the **Add/Remove Programs** dialog box for an installed application.  
  
  The following properties are set in the **Application Updates** dialog box, accessed from the **Publish** page.  
  
- `UpdateEnabled` indicates whether the application should check for updates.  
  
- `UpdateMode` specifies either Foreground updates or Background updates.  
  
- `UpdateInterval` specifies how frequently the application should check for updates.  
  
- `UpdateIntervalUnits` specifies whether the `UpdateInterval` value is in units of hours, days, or weeks.  
  
- `UpdateUrl` (not shown) is the location from which the application will receive updates. If specified, this value is inserted into the application manifest.  
  
- The following properties are set in the **Publish Options** dialog box, accessed from the **Publish** page.  
  
- `PublisherName` specifies the name of the publisher displayed in the prompt shown when installing or running the application. In the case of an installed application, it is also used to specify the folder name on the **Start** menu.  
  
- `ProductName` specifies the name of the product displayed in the prompt shown when installing or running the application. In the case of an installed application, it is also used to specify the shortcut name on the **Start** menu.  
  
- The following properties are set in the **Prerequisites** dialog box, accessed from the **Publish** page.  
  
- `BootstrapperEnabled` determines whether to generate the setup.exe bootstrapper.  
  
- `IsWebBootstrapper` determines whether the setup.exe bootstrapper works over the Web or in disk-based mode.  
  
## InstallURL, SupportUrl, PublishURL, and UpdateURL  
 The following table shows the four URL options for ClickOnce deployment.  
  
|URL option|Description|  
|----------------|-----------------|  
|`PublishURL`|Required if you are publishing your ClickOnce application to a Web site.|  
|`InstallURL`|Optional. Set this URL option if the installation site is different than the `PublishURL`. For example, you could set the `PublishURL` to an FTP path and set the `InstallURL` to a Web URL.|  
|`SupportURL`|Optional. Set this URL option if the support site is different than the `PublishURL`. For example, you could set the `SupportURL` to your company's customer support Web site.|  
|`UpdateURL`|Optional. Set this URL option if the update location is different than the `InstallURL`. For example, you could set the `PublishURL` to an FTP path and set the `UpdateURL` to a Web URL.|  
  
## See Also  
 <xref:Microsoft.Build.Tasks.GenerateBootstrapper>   
 <xref:Microsoft.Build.Tasks.GenerateApplicationManifest>   
 <xref:Microsoft.Build.Tasks.GenerateDeploymentManifest>   
 [ClickOnce Security and Deployment](../deployment/clickonce-security-and-deployment.md)   
 [Walkthrough: Manually Deploying a ClickOnce Application](../deployment/walkthrough-manually-deploying-a-clickonce-application.md)
