---
title: Advanced Build Settings Dialog Box (C#)
ms.date: 06/20/2017
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "cs.AdvancedBuildSettings"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Build options [C#], advanced"
ms.assetid: 141f2dee-1563-4ce6-ba37-32920b082519
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "dotnet"
---
# Advanced Build Settings Dialog Box (C#)

Use the **Advanced Build Settings** dialog box of the **Project Designer** to specify the project's advanced build configuration properties. This dialog box applies to [!INCLUDE[csprcs](../../data-tools/includes/csprcs_md.md)] projects only.

## General

The following options enable you to set general advanced settings.

**Language Version**

Specifies the version of the language to use. The feature set is different in each version, so this option can be used to force the compiler to allow only a subset of the implemented features, or to enable only those features compatible with an existing standard. This setting has the following options:

- **default**

   Targets the current version.

- **ISO-1** and **ISO-2**

   Targets the ISO-1 and ISO-2 standard features, respectively.

- **C# [version number]**

   Targets a specific version of C#. For more information, see [/langversion (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/langversion-compiler-option).

**Internal Compiler Error Reporting**

Specifies whether to report compiler errors to Microsoft. If set to **prompt** (the default), you will receive a prompt if an internal compiler error occurs, giving you the option of sending an error report electronically to Microsoft. If set to **send**, an error report will be sent automatically. If set to **queue**, error reports will be queued. If set to **none**, the error will be reported only in the compiler's text output. For more information, see [/errorreport (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/errorreport-compiler-option).

**Check for arithmetic overflow/underflow**

Specifies whether an integer arithmetic statement that is not in the scope of the [checked](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/checked) or [unchecked](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/unchecked) keywords and that results in a value outside the range of the data type will cause a run-time exception. For more information, see [/checked (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/checked-compiler-option).

**Do not reference mscorlib.dll**

Specifies whether mscorlib.dll will be imported into your program, defining the entire <xref:System> namespace. Check this box if you want to define or create your own <xref:System> namespace and objects. For more information, see [/nostdlib (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/nostdlib-compiler-option).

## Output

The following options enable you to specify advanced output options.

**Debug Information**

Specifies the type of debugging information generated by the compiler. For information on how to configure the debug performance of an application, see [Making an Image Easier to Debug](/dotnet/framework/debug-trace-profile/making-an-image-easier-to-debug). This setting has the following options:

- **none**

   Specifies that no debugging information will be generated.

- **full**

   Enables attaching a debugger to the running program.

- **pdbonly**

   Allows source code debugging when the program is started in the debugger but will only display assembler when the running program is attached to the debugger.

- **portable**

   Produces a .PDB file, a non-platform-specific, portable symbol file that provides other tools, especially debuggers, information about what is in the main executable file and how it was produced. See [Portable PDB](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/Documentation/diagnostics/portable_pdb.md) for more information.

- **embedded**

   Embeds portable symbol information into the assembly. No external .PDB file is produced.

For more information, see [/debug (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/debug-compiler-option).

**File Alignment**

Specifies the size of sections in the output file. Valid values are **512**, **1024**, **2048**, **4096**, and **8192**. These values are measured in bytes. Each section will be aligned on a boundary that is a multiple of this value, affecting the size of the output file. For more information, see [/filealign (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/filealign-compiler-option).

**Library Base Address**

Specifies the preferred base address at which to load a DLL. The default base address for a DLL is set by the [!INCLUDE[dnprdnshort](../../code-quality/includes/dnprdnshort_md.md)] common language runtime. For more information, see [/baseaddress (C# Compiler Options)](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/baseaddress-compiler-option).

## See Also

- [C# Compiler Options](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/index)
- [Build Page, Project Designer (C#)](../../ide/reference/build-page-project-designer-csharp.md)