---
title: "C6279 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords: 
  - "C6279"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C6279"
ms.assetid: 0af88b58-35df-456f-8c02-e8eeffe3b7de
caps.latest.revision: 15
author: mikeblome
ms.author: mblome
manager: jillfra
---
# C6279
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

warning C6279: \<variable> is allocated with scalar new, deleted with array delete []  
  
 This warning appears only in C++ code and indicates that the calling function has inconsistently allocated memory with the scalar **new** operator, but freed it with the array **delete []** operator. If memory is allocated with scalar **new**, it should typically be freed with scalar **delete**.  
  
 There are at least three reasons that this is likely to cause problems:  
  
- The constructors for the individual objects in the array are not invoked, although the destructors are.  
  
- If global (or class-specific) **operator new** and **operator delete** are not compatible with **operator new[]** and **operator delete[]**, unexpected results are likely to occur.  
  
  The exact ramifications of this defect are difficult to predict. It might cause random behavior or crashes due to usage of uninitialized memory because constructors are not invoked. Or, it might cause memory allocations and crashes in situations where operators have been overridden. In rare cases, the mismatch might be unimportant. Analysis tool does not currently distinguish between these situations.  
  
## Example  
 The following code generates this warning:  
  
```cpp  
class A  
{  
  // members  
};  
  
void f ( )  
{  
  A *pA = new A;  
  //code ...  
  delete[] pA;  
}  
```  
  
 To correct this warning, use the following code:  
  
```cpp  
void f( )  
{  
  A *pA = new A;  
  //code ...  
  delete pA;  
}  
```  
  
 To avoid these kinds of allocation problems altogether, use the mechanisms that are provided by the C++ Standard Template Library (STL). These include [shared_ptr](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1469fc51-c658-43f1-886c-f4530dd84860), [unique_ptr](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/acdf046b-831e-4a4a-83aa-6d4ee467db9a), and [vector](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c1431ad8-c0b6-4dbb-89c4-5f651e432d7f). For more information, see [Smart Pointers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/909ef870-904c-49b6-b8cd-e9d0b7dc9435) and [C++ Standard Library](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a37d3ba3-58af-47c7-9ee2-441ccd7b77ee).  
  
## See Also  
 [C6014](../code-quality/c6014.md)
