---
title: "CA2102: Catch non-CLSCompliant exceptions in general handlers | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2102"
  - "CatchNonClsCompliantExceptionsInGeneralHandlers"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA2102"
ms.assetid: bf2df68f-d386-4379-ad9e-930a2c2e930d
caps.latest.revision: 21
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: "wpickett"
---
# CA2102: Catch non-CLSCompliant exceptions in general handlers
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|CatchNonClsCompliantExceptionsInGeneralHandlers|
|CheckId|CA2102|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking Change|Non-breaking|

## Cause
 A member in an assembly that is not marked with the <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.RuntimeCompatibilityAttribute> or is marked `RuntimeCompatibility(WrapNonExceptionThrows = false)` contains a catch block that handles <xref:System.Exception?displayProperty=fullName> and does not contain an immediately following general catch block. This rule ignores [!INCLUDE[vbprvb](../includes/vbprvb-md.md)] assemblies.

## Rule Description
 A catch block that handles <xref:System.Exception> catches all Common Language Specification (CLS) compliant exceptions. However, it does not catch non-CLS compliant exceptions. Non-CLS compliant exceptions can be thrown from native code or from managed code that was generated by the Microsoft intermediate language (MSIL) Assembler. Notice that the C# and [!INCLUDE[vbprvb](../includes/vbprvb-md.md)] compilers do not allow non-CLS compliant exceptions to be thrown and [!INCLUDE[vbprvb](../includes/vbprvb-md.md)] does not catch non-CLS compliant exceptions. If the intent of the catch block is to handle all exceptions, use the following general catch block syntax.

- C#: `catch {}`

- C++: `catch(...) {}` or `catch(Object^) {}`

  An unhandled non-CLS compliant exception becomes a security issue when previously allowed permissions are removed in the catch block. Because non-CLS compliant exceptions are not caught, a malicious method that throws a non-CLS compliant exception could run with elevated permissions.

## How to Fix Violations
 To fix a violation of this rule when the intent is to catch all exceptions, substitute or add a general catch block or mark the assembly `RuntimeCompatibility(WrapNonExceptionThrows = true)`. If permissions are removed in the catch block, duplicate the functionality in the general catch block. If it is not the intent to handle all exceptions, replace the catch block that handles <xref:System.Exception> with catch blocks that handle specific exception types.

## When to Suppress Warnings
 It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the try block does not contain any statements that might generate a non-CLS compliant exception. Because any native or managed code might throw a non-CLS compliant exception, this requires knowledge of all code that can be executed in all code paths inside the try block. Notice that non-CLS compliant exceptions are not thrown by the common language runtime.

## Example
 The following example shows an MSIL class that throws a non-CLS compliant exception.

```
.assembly ThrowNonClsCompliantException {}
.class public auto ansi beforefieldinit ThrowsExceptions
{
   .method public hidebysig static void
         ThrowNonClsException() cil managed
   {
      .maxstack  1
      IL_0000:  newobj     instance void [mscorlib]System.Object::.ctor()
      IL_0005:  throw
   }
}
```

## Example
 The following example shows a method that contains a general catch block that satisfies the rule.

 [!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.CatchNonClsCompliantException#1](../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Security.CatchNonClsCompliantException/cs/FxCop.Security.CatchNonClsCompliantException.cs#1)]

 Compile the previous examples as follows.

```
ilasm /dll ThrowNonClsCompliantException.il
csc /r:ThrowNonClsCompliantException.dll CatchNonClsCompliantException.cs
```

## Related Rules
 [CA1031: Do not catch general exception types](../code-quality/ca1031-do-not-catch-general-exception-types.md)

## See Also
 [Exceptions and Exception Handling](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/0001887f-4fa2-47e2-8034-2819477e2344)
 [Ilasm.exe (IL Assembler)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4ca3a4f0-4400-47ce-8936-8e219961c76f)
 [Overriding Security Checks](https://msdn.microsoft.com/4acdeff5-fc05-41bf-8505-7387cdbfca28)
 [Language Independence and Language-Independent Components](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4f0b77d0-4844-464f-af73-6e06bedeafc6)
