---
title: "Working with Code Metrics Data | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords:
  - "vs.codemetrics.output"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "code metrics results"
  - "code metrics results window"
  - "results window, code metrics"
ms.assetid: 988193ec-b4a3-4e11-b5a1-7334979807d5
caps.latest.revision: 19
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: jillfra
---
# Working with Code Metrics Data
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

The **Code Metrics Results** window displays the data that is generated by the code metrics analysis. For more information about code metrics data values, see [Code Metrics Values](../code-quality/code-metrics-values.md).

 This topic contains the following sections:

- [Code Metrics Results Window](../code-quality/working-with-code-metrics-data.md#BKMK_CodeMetricsResultsWindow)

- [Displaying Code Metrics Results](../code-quality/working-with-code-metrics-data.md#BKMK_DisplayingCodeMetricsResults)

- [Filtering Code Metrics Results](../code-quality/working-with-code-metrics-data.md#BKMK_FilteringCodeMetricsResults)

- [Adding, Removing, and Rearranging Data Columns](../code-quality/working-with-code-metrics-data.md#BKMK_AddingRemovingandRearrangingDataColumns)

- [Copying Data to the Clipboard or Excel](../code-quality/working-with-code-metrics-data.md#BKMK_Copying_Data_to_the_Clipboard_or_Excel)

- [Creating a Work Item Based on Code Metric Results](../code-quality/working-with-code-metrics-data.md#BKMK_Creating_a_Work_Item_Based_on_Code_Metric_Results)

## <a name="BKMK_CodeMetricsResultsWindow"></a> Code Metrics Results Window
 The **Code Metrics Results** window has a toolbar at the top and columns to display the calculated results.

|Column|Description|
|------------|-----------------|
|**Hierarchy**|The **Hierarchy** column contains a tree view of the code hierarchy that you can expand or collapse to see the level of detail that you want. The remaining columns show the calculated results. You can hide or arrange the result columns as you want.|
|**Maintainability**|The **Maintainability** column contains an icon in addition to the numeric result. A green icon indicates a relatively high degree of maintainability. A yellow icon indicates a moderate degree of maintainability. A red icon indicates low maintainability and a potential trouble spot. These color indicators correspond to severity categories that are used by the FxCop rule AvoidUnmaintainableCode. This rule fires an error if the maintainability index is lower than 10, a warning if the index is between 10 and 20, and neither an error nor a warning if the index is higher than 20. The maintainability index is a synthesis of three metrics: cyclomatic complexity, lines of code, and computational complexity. Its values are not expressed in units.|

## <a name="BKMK_DisplayingCodeMetricsResults"></a> Displaying Code Metrics Results
 The Code Metrics Results window is displayed automatically when you generate code metrics results. You can also display the window at any time.

#### To display the Code Metrics Results window

- On the **Analyze** menu, click **Windows** and then click **Code Metrics Results**.

     \- or -

- On the **View** menu, point to **Other Windows** and then click **Code Metrics Results**.

     The Code Metrics Results window is displayed even when it contains no results.

#### To view code metrics details

- If code metrics results have been generated, expand the tree in the **Hierarchy** column.

## <a name="BKMK_FilteringCodeMetricsResults"></a> Filtering Code Metrics Results
 You can filter the results that are displayed in the **Code Metrics Results** window by using the toolbar at the top. For example, you might want to see only the results that have a maintainability index below 65.

 The **Filter** drop-down box contains the names of the results columns. When a filter is defined, it is added to the bottom of the list together with an indentation. The list can contain the last ten filters that were defined.

#### To filter the code metrics results

1. From the **Filter** list, select the column name.

2. In **Min**, type the minimum value to be displayed.

3. In **Max**, type the maximum value to be displayed.

4. Click the **Apply Filter** button.

5. To see the result details, expand the hierarchy tree.

## <a name="BKMK_AddingRemovingandRearrangingDataColumns"></a> Adding, Removing, and Rearranging Data Columns
 You can add or remove results columns from the **Code Metrics Results** window . In addition, you can rearrange results columns so that they appear in the order that you want.

#### To remove a column

1. Click the **Add/Remove Columns** button.

     \- or -

     Right-click any column heading and then click **Add/Remove Columns**.

2. In the **Add/Remove Columns** dialog box, clear the check box for the column that you want to remove and then click **OK**.

#### To add a previously removed column

1. Click the **Add/Remove Columns** button.

     \- or -

     Right-click any column heading and then click **Add/Remove Columns**.

2. In the **Add/Remove Columns** dialog box, select the check box for the column that you want to add and then click **OK**.

#### To rearrange columns

1. Click the **Add/Remove Columns** button.

     \- or -

     Right-click any column heading and then click **Add/Remove Columns**.

2. In the **Add/Remove Columns** dialog box, select the column that you want to move and then click either the up arrow or the down arrow.

3. When the column is positioned where you want it, click **OK**.

## <a name="BKMK_Copying_Data_to_the_Clipboard_or_Excel"></a> Copying Data to the Clipboard or Excel
 You can select and copy a selected row of code metrics data to the clipboard as a text string that contains one line for the name and value of each data column. You can also click **Open List in Microsoft Excel** to export all of the code metrics results to an Excel spreadsheet

## <a name="BKMK_Creating_a_Work_Item_Based_on_Code_Metric_Results"></a> Creating a Work Item Based on Code Metric Results
 You can create a [!INCLUDE[esprfound](../includes/esprfound-md.md)] work item that is based on results in the **Code Metric Results** window. When the work item is created, [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../includes/vsprvs-md.md)] automatically enters a title in the **Title** field and code metrics data under the **History** tab.

 For more information about how to create work items, see [Create a work item &#91;redirected&#93;](https://msdn.microsoft.com/24b2e064-16ac-4bf0-8de4-98a1f48b8c4b).

#### To create a work item based on a result

1. Right-click the result.

2. Point to **Create Work Item**, and then click the type of work item you want to create (**Bug**, **Task**, and so forth).

3. Complete the work item form by filling in all required fields.

4. On the **File** menu, click **Save All** to save the work item.

#### To create a bug based on a result

1. Click the result to select it.

2. Click the **Create Work Item** button.

3. Complete the work item form by filling in all required fields.

4. On the **File** menu, click **Save All** to save the work item.

## See Also
 [Measuring Complexity and Maintainability of Managed Code](../code-quality/measuring-complexity-and-maintainability-of-managed-code.md)
 [How to: Generate Code Metrics Data](../code-quality/how-to-generate-code-metrics-data.md)
