---
title: "Creating Reusable Controls for Web Parts or Application Pages | Microsoft Docs"
titleSuffix: ""
description: Create custom, reusable controls (user controls) in Visual Studio that can be consumed by application pages and web parts that run in SharePoint.
ms.custom: SEO-VS-2020
ms.date: "02/02/2017"
ms.topic: overview
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "user controls [SharePoint development in Visual Studio], creating"
  - "SharePoint development in Visual Studio, user controls"
author: John-Hart
ms.author: johnhart
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: sharepoint-development
ms.workload:
  - "office"
---
# Create reusable controls for web parts or application pages
  In Visual Studio, you can create custom, reusable controls that can be consumed by application pages and Web Parts that run in SharePoint. These controls are called user controls. A user control is a kind of composite control that works much like an ASP.NET Web page—you can add existing Web server controls and markup to a user control, and define properties and methods for the control. You can then embed them in ASP.NET Web pages, where they act as a unit.

## Create a user control
 To create a user control, add a **User Control** to an **Empty SharePoint Project**. For more information, see [How to: Create a user control for a SharePoint application page or web part](../sharepoint/how-to-create-a-user-control-for-a-sharepoint-application-page-or-web-part.md).

 When you add a **User Control** item, Visual Studio creates a folder in your project, and then adds several files to the folder. The following table describes each file.

|File|Description|
|----------|-----------------|
|User control file|Defines the user control. Design the user control by adding controls and markup to this file.|
|Code file|Contains code behind the user control. Add code to handle events to this file.|
|Designer code file|Contains code generated by the designer and should not be directly edited.|

## Design the user control
 Design the user control by using the Visual Web Developer designer in Visual Studio. This designer appears when you open the user control file in your project and choose the **Design** tab.

## Consume the user control
 User controls do not appear in SharePoint until you include them in an application page or a Web Part.

 To include a user control in an application page, open the Web page to which you want to add the ASP.NET user control. Switch to Design view, then select your custom user control file in Solution Explorer, and drag it onto the page. The ASP.NET user control is added to the page, and the designer creates the @ Register directive, which is required for the page to recognize the user control. You can now work with the control's public properties and methods.

 To include a user control in a Web Part, add the user control to the Web Part <xref:System.Web.UI.WebControls.WebParts.Part.Controls%2A> collection in the Web Part code file. The following example adds a user control to the <xref:System.Web.UI.WebControls.WebParts.Part.Controls%2A> collection of a Web Part.

 :::code language="vb" source="../sharepoint/codesnippet/VisualBasic/sp_visualwebpart.vb/visualwebpart1/visualwebpart1.vb" id="Snippet5":::
 :::code language="csharp" source="../sharepoint/codesnippet/CSharp/sp_visualwebpart.cs/visualwebpart1/visualwebpart1.cs" id="Snippet5":::

## Debug a user control
 To debug a user control, ensure that the user control is included in an application page or Web Part in your SharePoint project. You can then debug code in the user control just as you would debug code in any Visual Studio Project.

 When you start the Visual Studio debugger, Visual Studio opens the SharePoint site.

 In SharePoint, open the application page that includes the user control. If the user control is included in a Web Part, add the Web Part to a Web Part page in SharePoint.

 For more information about debugging SharePoint projects, see [Troubleshoot SharePoint solutions](../sharepoint/troubleshooting-sharepoint-solutions.md).

## Related topics

|Title|Description|
|-----------|-----------------|
|[How to: Create a user control for a SharePoint application page or web part](../sharepoint/how-to-create-a-user-control-for-a-sharepoint-application-page-or-web-part.md)|Shows you how to create custom, reusable controls that can be consumed by application pages and Web Parts that run in SharePoint.|
