---
title: "SharePoint solutions: Create custom feature, package validation rules"
ms.date: "02/02/2017"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
dev_langs:
  - "VB"
  - "CSharp"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "SharePoint development in Visual Studio, extending deployment"
  - "SharePoint development in Visual Studio, validation rules"
author: John-Hart
ms.author: johnhart
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "office"
---
# How to: Create custom feature and package validation rules for SharePoint solutions
  You can create custom validation rules to verify the solution package generated by Visual Studio. You can perform full validation on an entire Feature or package by selecting **Validate** from the context menu of a package or Feature in the **PackagingExplorer**. Partial validation is performed when you add new SharePoint project items or Features to the project to determine if the Package or Feature would be in a valid state.

### To create a custom package validation rule

1. Create a class library project.

2. Add references to the following assemblies:

    - Microsoft.VisualStudio.SharePoint

    - System.ComponentModel.Composition

3. Create a class that implements one of the following interfaces:

    - To create a package validation rule, implement the <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.SharePoint.Validation.IPackageValidationRule> interface.

    - To create a Feature validation rule, implement the <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.SharePoint.Validation.IFeatureValidationRule> interface.

4. Add the <xref:System.ComponentModel.Composition.ExportAttribute> to the class. This attribute enables Visual Studio to discover and load your validation rule. Pass the <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.SharePoint.Validation.IPackageValidationRule> or <xref:Microsoft.VisualStudio.SharePoint.Validation.IFeatureValidationRule> type to the attribute constructor.

## Example
 The following code example demonstrates how to create a custom Feature validation rule.

 [!code-vb[SPExtensibility.FeatureValidation#1](../sharepoint/codesnippet/VisualBasic/featurevalidation/extension/customvalidationrule.vb#1)]
 [!code-csharp[SPExtensibility.FeatureValidation#1](../sharepoint/codesnippet/CSharp/featurevalidation/extension/customfeaturevalidationrule.cs#1)]

## Compile the code
 This example requires references to the following assemblies:

- Microsoft.VisualStudio.SharePoint.

- System.ComponentModel.Composition.

## Deploy the extension
 To deploy the extension, create a [!include[vsprvs](../sharepoint/includes/vsprvs-md.md)] extension (VSIX) package for the assembly and any other files that you want to distribute with the extension. For more information, see [Deploy Extensions for the SharePoint tools in Visual Studio](../sharepoint/deploying-extensions-for-the-sharepoint-tools-in-visual-studio.md).

## See also
- [Extend SharePoint packaging and deployment](../sharepoint/extending-sharepoint-packaging-and-deployment.md)
