subscriptions/buy-activate-retail.md, before:

---
title: Subscriptions available in the Microsoft Store
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
manager: shve
ms.date: 08/27/2025
ms.topic: how-to
description: Purchase Visual Studio subscriptions in the Microsoft Store and activate them in the Visual Studio subscriptions portal.
---

# Visual Studio subscriptions are available through the Microsoft Store

Visual Studio subscriptions are available through various channels. Choose from [Volume Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/default), Cloud Solution Providers, the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/subscriptions), and Microsoft Store. This article explores purchasing and activating subscriptions through the [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/collections/visualstudio).  

## How to buy subscriptions

Need help with deciding which subscription is right for you? Check out our [subscription benefits page](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/benefits/).  

Visual Studio subscriptions available through the Microsoft Store include:
+ [Visual Studio Enterprise](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-enterprise-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst4?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)
+ [Visual Studio Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst3?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)
+ [Visual Studio Test Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-test-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst6?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)

Each of these subscriptions offers the option to make an initial purchase or to renew an existing subscription. Renewal pricing, which reflects a significant discount, is only available for existing subscriptions. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To qualify to renew subscriptions at the discounted renewal price, subscriptions should be renewed before they expire. Subscriptions expired for 30 days or more aren't eligible for renewal pricing.    

## How to activate subscriptions

After you purchase a Visual Studio subscription through the Microsoft Store, you can begin the activation process from the payment confirmation page or confirmation email you received after your purchase.

1. Select the **Click here to sign in** link in the confirmation email or on the purchase confirmation page.
2. You're redirected to [https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions/activate](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions/activate?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs).
3. Enter the email address that requires access to the Visual Studio subscription and select **Continue**.
4. You might be redirected to one of two different sign-in pages depending on the type of account you're using:
    - Subscribers using their personal "Microsoft Account" (MSA) see the Microsoft Account password page.
    - Subscribers using their work/school accounts are redirected to their organization's sign-in page.
5. Enter your password, or complete your organization's sign-in requirements.
6. Upon successful sign-in, an "Activate Your Visual Studio Subscription" window appears.
7. Enter the product key information available from the payment "Confirmation Page" or "Confirmation Email" and select **Activate**.
8. The subscription should now be visible on the [Subscriptions](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs) page and you should have access to all your subscription benefits.
 
> [!NOTE]
> When you buy a Retail Visual Studio Subscription through the Microsoft Store or another retail channel, you manage it differently than subscriptions from Volume Licensing or Enterprise Agreements using the Visual Studio Subscriptions Admin portal (manage.visualstudio.com).
>
>These subscriptions are activated using a product key and are intended for individual developers and small teams. As such, they don't include access to subscription management features such as user assignment, or renewal automation. These capabilities are only available for subscriptions provisioned through organizational licensing programs.

## Support for Microsoft Store

If you have any questions about purchasing through the Microsoft Store, help is available. Contact [Microsoft Store Support](https://support.microsoft.com/help/28808/microsoft-store-contact-support?ocid=MSCOMStoreFooter-ContactUs).

## Resources

[Visual Studio subscriptions support](https://my.visualstudio.com/gethelp)

## See also

+ [Visual Studio documentation](/visualstudio/)
+ [Azure DevOps Services documentation](/azure/devops/)
+ [Azure documentation](/azure/)
+ [Microsoft 365 documentation](/microsoft-365/)

## Next steps

Once your subscription is active, visit the [Benefits](https://my.visualstudio.com/benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs) page to see all the tools, services, training, and support benefits included in your subscription. We recommend setting up these benefits to get started:
+ [Visual Studio](vs-ide-benefit.md)
+ [Azure DevOps](vs-azure-devops.md)

Commit message:

Retail how to renew and activate
Crossed referenced two learn articles, added support information and troubleshooting support.

subscriptions/buy-activate-retail.md, after:

---
title: Subscriptions available in the Microsoft Store
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
manager: shve
ms.date: 09/02/2025
ms.topic: how-to
description: Purchase Visual Studio subscriptions in the Microsoft Store and activate them in the Visual Studio subscriptions portal.
---

# Visual Studio subscriptions are available through the Microsoft Store

Visual Studio subscriptions are available through various channels. Choose from [Volume Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/default), Cloud Solution Providers, the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/subscriptions), and Microsoft Store. This article explores purchasing and activating subscriptions through the [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/collections/visualstudio).  

## How to buy subscriptions

Need help with deciding which subscription is right for you? Check out our [subscription benefits page](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/benefits/).  

Visual Studio subscriptions available through the Microsoft Store include:
+ [Visual Studio Enterprise](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-enterprise-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst4?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)
+ [Visual Studio Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst3?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)
+ [Visual Studio Test Professional](https://www.microsoft.com/p/visual-studio-test-professional-subscription/dg7gmgf0dst6?activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab)

Each of these subscriptions offers the option to make an initial purchase or to renew an existing subscription. Renewal pricing, which reflects a significant discount, is only available for existing subscriptions. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To qualify to renew subscriptions at the discounted renewal price, subscriptions should be renewed before they expire. Subscriptions expired for 30 days or more aren't eligible for renewal pricing.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you don't receive your confirmation email or product key, contact the [Microsoft Store Support](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/help-with-microsoft-store-purchases-4f615f2a-6bbd-fd69-6695-ae213d63eef0). They can provide you with the necessary information so you can activate your renewal.   

## How to activate subscriptions

After you purchase a Visual Studio subscription through the Microsoft Store, you can begin the activation process from the payment confirmation page or confirmation email you received after your purchase.

1. Select the **Click here to sign in** link in the confirmation email or on the purchase confirmation page.
2. You're redirected to [https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions/activate](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions/activate?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs).
3. Enter the email address that requires access to the Visual Studio subscription and select **Continue**.
4. You might be redirected to one of two different sign-in pages depending on the type of account you're using:
    - Subscribers using their personal "Microsoft Account" (MSA) see the Microsoft Account password page.
    - Subscribers using their work/school accounts are redirected to their organization's sign-in page.
5. Enter your password, or complete your organization's sign-in requirements.
6. Upon successful sign-in, an "Activate Your Visual Studio Subscription" window appears.
7. Enter the product key information available from the payment "Confirmation Page" or "Confirmation Email" and select **Activate**.
8. The subscription should now be visible on the [Subscriptions](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs) page and you should have access to all your subscription benefits.
 
## Support for Visual Studio subscriber portal

+ If you have issues activating your subscription or renewing in the Visual Studio subscriber portal, contact [Visual Studio subscription support](https://my.visualstudio.com/gethelp).
+ If you don't receive the confirmation email and the product key or have any questions about purchasing through the Microsoft Store, contact [Microsoft Store Support](https://support.microsoft.com/help/28808/microsoft-store-contact-support?ocid=MSCOMStoreFooter-ContactUs).

> [!NOTE]
> When you buy a Retail Visual Studio Subscription through the Microsoft Store or another retail channel, you manage it differently than subscriptions from Volume Licensing or Enterprise Agreements using the Visual Studio Subscriptions Admin portal (manage.visualstudio.com).
>
>These subscriptions are activated using a product key and are intended for individual developers and small teams. As such, they don't include access to subscription management features such as user assignment, or renewal automation. These capabilities are only available for subscriptions provisioned through organizational licensing programs.

## How to renew retail subscriptions

For help, visit [How to renew retail subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/subscriptions/faq/admin/renewal-cancellation/#how-do-i-renew-visual-studio-subscriptions) article. 

## Support for Microsoft Store

If you have any questions about purchasing through the Microsoft Store, help is available. Contact [Microsoft Store Support](https://support.microsoft.com/help/28808/microsoft-store-contact-support?ocid=MSCOMStoreFooter-ContactUs).

## Resources

[Visual Studio subscriptions support](https://my.visualstudio.com/gethelp)

## See also

+ [Visual Studio documentation](/visualstudio/)
+ [Azure DevOps Services documentation](/azure/devops/)
+ [Azure documentation](/azure/)
+ [Microsoft 365 documentation](/microsoft-365/)

## Next steps

Once your subscription is active, visit the [Benefits](https://my.visualstudio.com/benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs) page to see all the tools, services, training, and support benefits included in your subscription. We recommend setting up these benefits to get started:
+ [Visual Studio](vs-ide-benefit.md)
+ [Azure DevOps](vs-azure-devops.md)
