subscriptions/vs-tech-support.md, before:

---
title: Activate Technical Support for subscriptions
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
manager: shve
ms.date: 08/11/2025
ms.topic: how-to
description: Activate the technical support benefit included with your Visual Studio subscription, locate supported products and resources, and learn how to submit incidents.
ms.custom: sfi-image-nochange
---
# Activate and use the Technical Support benefit in Visual Studio subscriptions

The Technical Support benefit in Visual Studio subscriptions is for resolving break-fix issues in **non-production environments** for products that are still in the mainstream support phase of the [support lifecycle](https://support.microsoft.com/lifecycle/search). Visual Studio Enterprise standard and annual cloud subscriptions receive four incidents, while Visual Studio Professional standard and annual cloud subscriptions receive two incidents, for up to one year from benefit activation. Benefit activation must occur while the subscription is current.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft no longer offers Visual Studio Professional Annual subscriptions and Visual Studio Enterprise Annual subscriptions in Cloud Subscriptions. There's no change to existing customers experience and ability to renew, increase, decrease, or cancel their subscriptions. New customers are encouraged to go to <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/pricing/> to explore different options to purchase Visual Studio subscriptions.

> [!NOTE]
> Not all subscriptions at a given level are eligible to receive support incidents. Subscriptions acquired through Full Time Employee (FTE), Not For Resale (NFR), Microsoft AI Cloud Partner Program (MAICPP), Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT), and other programs don't receive support incidents. If your subscription isn't eligible to receive technical support incidents, the Technical Support tile isn't displayed among your benefits.

## Supported products 

Developer Tools such as the Visual Studio IDE and Azure DevOps Server receive both mainstream and extended support through Visual Studio subscriptions.

Nondeveloper products (such as SQL, Windows, SharePoint) downloaded from Visual Studio subscriptions are eligible only for mainstream support. These products are only licensed for development environments to design, develop, test, or demonstrate applications. These products aren't licensed for production environments.

Product level descriptions: Expand **Unavailable support plans**. If you see **Support plan cannot be used for support on the specified product (Code: 8)**, your support contract can't be used for the product version you selected.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The support incidents provided are for break-fix support. They might not be used for assistance with coding/development issues involving the following products:
> - Microsoft Teams
> - Microsoft Office
> - Microsoft SharePoint
> - Microsoft Exchange
> - Microsoft Graph
> - Microsoft Outlook

## How to activate the benefit

> [!NOTE]
> The following steps apply to activation of the benefit in **English** only. For other languages, visit <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/subscriptions/support>, scroll to the bottom, and select **Account, Subscription and Billing Support** and then select your country/region from the drop-down list.

1. Go to <https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits>, scroll down to the Support section, and on the Technical Support tile select **Chat to activate**.
    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Technical Support Benefit Tile](_img/vs-tech-support/vs-tech-support-tile.png "Screenshot of the Technical Support tile. The chat to activate button is highlighted.")
2. You join a chat session with a representative who can create your **Contract ID** and **Access ID** and provide those numbers to you via email so you have them for your records.

3. To complete the process, you need to provide the representative with:
   + Your country/region
   + Company name
   + Your full name
   + The email address you use to sign in to your subscription
   + The Subscription ID, which can be found on the [Subscriptions](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions) tab.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Technical Support Benefit Find Subscription ID](_img/vs-tech-support/visual-studio-tech-support-subscription-id-cropped-rev.png "Screenshot of the subscriptions page. An example of a subscription ID is highlighted.")

4. After the process is completed, you receive an email containing your **Contract ID** and **Access ID** you use when creating a support incident. It also provides instructions for submitting support incidents using your new Access ID and Contract ID. 

## How to submit an incident using your benefit

**To submit a support request using the benefit, you must first activate it.  Follow the steps in the previous section to complete the activation.**

When you have your **Contract ID** and **Access ID** set up, you can use it to submit a Tech Support incident. 

You can submit incidents online, over the phone, or from the Azure portal. 

### Submit an incident online

To submit an incident via the Support for business portal, follow these steps:

  > [!NOTE]
  > You might receive a notice that you need to confirm your email address. Select the **Send email** link in the notice to send the confirmation to the email address listed in your profile. 

1. Sign in to <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/supportforbusiness/productselection>

0. In the **Step 1** section, select the appropriate entries from the drop-down lists to indicate your product, version, issue, etc. Complete the text fields for the summary of the issue and to describe the issue in more detail. You might be redirected to a specific cloud portal (for example, Azure or Microsoft 365) depending on the product.
   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Create a new support request](_img/vs-tech-support/visual-studio-tech-support-create-new-rev.png "Screenshot of the new support request dialog.") 
0. Select your **Support Type**.
0. Enter the **Access ID** and **Contract ID** you received in your confirmation email when you activated your support benefit. Select **Add**.
0. Supply your location and time zone.
   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Add a Contract ID](_img/vs-tech-support/vs-tech-support-add-contract-id.png "Screenshot of the dialog to add a new contract ID.") 
0. Your new support contract appears in the **Step 1**. Select it.
0. **Step 2**, enter **Issue Description**
0. Indicate the severity of your issue. "Important" is the default. 
0. Choose when you would like to receive support. "Only during business hours" is selected by default. The option for "24/7 support" is only available if you selected "Critical" as the severity.
0. Select **Next** to continue. 
0. For **Step 3**, provide the contact information you would like your support agent to use to contact you and other email addresses for Sharing information if needed. 
   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Verify your contact information](_img/vs-tech-support/vs-tech-support-contact-info.png "Screenshot of primary contact information dialog.") 
0. In **Step 3**, select **Submit**.
 
### Submit an incident by phone

If you would like to create a support incident over the phone, locate the [Customer Service](https://support.microsoft.com/help/13948/global-customer-service-phone-numbers) phone number for your country/region. Ensure you have your Contract ID and Access ID available when you call.

### Submit an incident in the Azure portal

To use your Visual Studio subscription technical support benefit for issues relating to Azure, you need to link your Contract ID and Access ID to your Azure subscription.

1. Visit https://portal.azure.com and sign in
0. From the left-hand navigation, select **Help + Support**
0. Under "Support", select **New Support Request**

## Eligibility

| Subscription Level | Channels | Benefit | Renewable? |
|--------------------|----------|---------|------------|
| Visual Studio Enterprise (Standard) | VL, Azure, Retail, selected NFR<sup>1</sup> | 4 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Enterprise subscription with GitHub Enterprise | VL | 4 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Professional (Standard) | VL, Azure, Retail | 2 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Professional subscription with GitHub Enterprise | VL | 2 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Test Professional (Standard) | VL, Retail | 2 incidents | Yes |
| MSDN Platforms (Standard) | VL, Retail | 2 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Enterprise, Visual Studio Professional (monthly cloud) | Azure | Not available | NA |

<sup>1</sup> *Includes: Student Ambassadors. Excludes: Not for Resale (NFR), Visual Studio Industry Partner (VSIP), Microsoft AI Cloud Partner Program (MAICPP), Full Time Employee (FTE), Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT) Software & Services Developer, Most Valuable Professional (MVP), Regional Director (RD), Not for Resale Basic (NFR Basic), Independent Software Vendor (ISV), Bug Bounty Program, Microsoft Startups.*

Not sure which subscription you're using? Connect to [https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs) to see all the subscriptions assigned to your email address. If you don't see all your subscriptions, you might have one or more assigned to a different email address. You need to sign in with that email address to see those subscriptions.

## Support resources

For assistance with sales, subscriptions, accounts, and billing for Visual Studio Subscriptions, contact [Visual Studio subscriptions support](https://my.visualstudio.com/gethelp).

## See also

+ [Visual Studio documentation](/visualstudio/)
+ [Azure DevOps documentation](/azure/devops/)
+ [Azure documentation](/azure/)
+ [Microsoft 365 documentation](/microsoft-365/)

## Next steps

To make the most of your Visual Studio subscription, be sure to activate these great benefits:
+ [Visual Studio](vs-ide-benefit.md)
+ [Azure DevOps](vs-azure-devops.md)
+ [Azure DevTest offer / credits](/azure/devtest/offer/)

Commit message:

Visual Studio Technical Support (#14362)
Updated the article to reflect the actual process of getting this benefit set up for consumption. Added a new image of the benefit tile and fixed Acrolinx suggestions.

subscriptions/vs-tech-support.md, after:

---
title: Use Technical Support for subscriptions
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
manager: shve
ms.date: 09/29/2025
ms.topic: how-to
description: Use the technical support benefit included with your Visual Studio subscription, locate supported products and resources, and learn how to submit incidents.
ms.custom: sfi-image-nochange
---
# Use your Technical Support benefit in Visual Studio subscriptions

The Technical Support benefit in Visual Studio subscriptions is for resolving break-fix issues in **non-production environments** for products that are still in the mainstream support phase of the [support lifecycle](https://support.microsoft.com/lifecycle/search). Visual Studio Enterprise standard and annual cloud subscriptions receive four incidents, while Visual Studio Professional standard and annual cloud subscriptions receive two incidents, for up to one year from obtaining your **Contract ID** and **Access ID**. Benefit setup must occur while the subscription is current.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft no longer offers Visual Studio Professional Annual subscriptions and Visual Studio Enterprise Annual subscriptions in Cloud Subscriptions. There's no change to existing customers experience and ability to renew, increase, decrease, or cancel their subscriptions. New customers are encouraged to go to <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/pricing/> to explore different options to purchase Visual Studio subscriptions.

> [!NOTE]
> Not all subscriptions at a given level are eligible to receive support incidents. Subscriptions acquired through Full Time Employee (FTE), Not For Resale (NFR), Microsoft AI Cloud Partner Program (MAICPP), Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT), and other programs don't receive support incidents. If your subscription isn't eligible to receive technical support incidents, the Technical Support tile isn't displayed among your benefits.

## Supported products 

Developer Tools such as the Visual Studio IDE and Azure DevOps Server receive both mainstream and extended support through Visual Studio subscriptions.

Nondeveloper products (such as SQL, Windows, SharePoint) downloaded from Visual Studio subscriptions are eligible only for mainstream support. These products are only licensed for development environments to design, develop, test, or demonstrate applications. These products aren't licensed for production environments.

Product level descriptions: Expand **Unavailable support plans**. If you see **Support plan cannot be used for support on the specified product (Code: 8)**, your support contract can't be used for the product version you selected.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The support incidents provided are for break-fix support. They might not be used for assistance with coding/development issues involving the following products:
> - Microsoft Teams
> - Microsoft Office
> - Microsoft SharePoint
> - Microsoft Exchange
> - Microsoft Graph
> - Microsoft Outlook

## How to use the benefit

> [!NOTE]
> The following steps apply to obtaining a **Contract ID** and **Access ID** in **English** only. For other languages, visit <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/subscriptions/support>, scroll to the bottom, and select **Account, Subscription and Billing Support** and then select your country/region from the drop-down list.

1. Go to <https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits>, scroll down to the Support section, and on the Technical Support tile select **Get Help**.
    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Technical Support Benefit Tile](_img/vs-tech-support/visual-studio-tech-support-tile-rev.png "Screenshot of the Technical Support tile. The Get Help button is highlighted.")
2. You join a chat session with a representative who can create your **Contract ID** and **Access ID** and provide those numbers to you via email so you have them for your records.

3. To complete the process, you need to provide the representative with:
   + Your country/region
   + Company name
   + Your full name
   + The email address you use to sign in to your subscription
   + The Subscription ID, which can be found on the [Subscriptions](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions) tab.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Technical Support Benefit Find Subscription ID](_img/vs-tech-support/visual-studio-tech-support-subscription-id-cropped-rev.png "Screenshot of the subscriptions page. An example of a subscription ID is highlighted.")

4. After the process is completed, you receive an email containing your **Contract ID** and **Access ID** you use when creating a support incident. It also provides instructions for submitting support incidents using your new Access ID and Contract ID. 

## How to submit an incident using your benefit

**To submit a support request using the benefit, you must first obtain a Contract ID and Access ID.  Follow the steps in the previous section to complete the process.**

When you have your **Contract ID** and **Access ID** set up, you can use it to submit a Tech Support incident. 

You can submit incidents online, over the phone, or from the Azure portal. 

### Submit an incident online

To submit an incident via the Support for business portal, follow these steps:

  > [!NOTE]
  > You might receive a notice that you need to confirm your email address. Select the **Send email** link in the notice to send the confirmation to the email address listed in your profile. 

1. Sign in to <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/supportforbusiness/productselection>

0. In the **Step 1** section, select the appropriate entries from the drop-down lists to indicate your product, version, issue, etc. Complete the text fields for the summary of the issue and to describe the issue in more detail. You might be redirected to a specific cloud portal (for example, Azure or Microsoft 365) depending on the product.
   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Create a new support request](_img/vs-tech-support/visual-studio-tech-support-create-new-rev.png "Screenshot of the new support request dialog.") 
0. Select your **Support Type**.
0. Enter the **Access ID** and **Contract ID** you received in your confirmation email when you activated your support benefit. Select **Add**.
0. Supply your location and time zone.
   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Add a Contract ID](_img/vs-tech-support/vs-tech-support-add-contract-id.png "Screenshot of the dialog to add a new contract ID.") 
0. Your new support contract appears in the **Step 1**. Select it.
0. **Step 2**, enter **Issue Description**
0. Indicate the severity of your issue. "Important" is the default. 
0. Choose when you would like to receive support. "Only during business hours" is selected by default. The option for "24/7 support" is only available if you selected "Critical" as the severity.
0. Select **Next** to continue. 
0. For **Step 3**, provide the contact information you would like your support agent to use to contact you and other email addresses for Sharing information if needed. 
   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Verify your contact information](_img/vs-tech-support/vs-tech-support-contact-info.png "Screenshot of primary contact information dialog.") 
0. In **Step 3**, select **Submit**.
 
### Submit an incident by phone

If you would like to create a support incident over the phone, locate the [Customer Service](https://support.microsoft.com/help/13948/global-customer-service-phone-numbers) phone number for your country/region. Ensure you have your Contract ID and Access ID available when you call.

### Submit an incident in the Azure portal

To use your Visual Studio subscription technical support benefit for issues relating to Azure, you need to link your Contract ID and Access ID to your Azure subscription.

1. Visit https://portal.azure.com and sign in
0. From the left-hand navigation, select **Help + Support**
0. Under "Support", select **New Support Request**

## Eligibility

| Subscription Level | Channels | Benefit | Renewable? |
|--------------------|----------|---------|------------|
| Visual Studio Enterprise (Standard) | VL, Azure, Retail, selected NFR<sup>1</sup> | 4 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Enterprise subscription with GitHub Enterprise | VL | 4 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Professional (Standard) | VL, Azure, Retail | 2 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Professional subscription with GitHub Enterprise | VL | 2 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Test Professional (Standard) | VL, Retail | 2 incidents | Yes |
| MSDN Platforms (Standard) | VL, Retail | 2 incidents | Yes |
| Visual Studio Enterprise, Visual Studio Professional (monthly cloud) | Azure | Not available | NA |

<sup>1</sup> *Includes: Student Ambassadors. <br><br> Excludes: Not for Resale (NFR), Visual Studio Industry Partner (VSIP), Microsoft AI Cloud Partner Program (MAICPP), Full Time Employee (FTE), Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT) Software & Services Developer, Most Valuable Professional (MVP), Regional Director (RD), Not for Resale Basic (NFR Basic), Independent Software Vendor (ISV), Bug Bounty Program, Microsoft Startups.*

Not sure which subscription you're using? Connect to [https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions?wt.mc_id=o~msft~docs) to see all the subscriptions assigned to your email address. If you don't see all your subscriptions, you might have one or more assigned to a different email address. You need to sign in with that email address to see those subscriptions.

## Support resources

For assistance with sales, subscriptions, accounts, and billing for Visual Studio Subscriptions, contact [Visual Studio subscriptions support](https://my.visualstudio.com/gethelp).

## See also

+ [Visual Studio documentation](/visualstudio/)
+ [Azure DevOps documentation](/azure/devops/)
+ [Azure documentation](/azure/)
+ [Microsoft 365 documentation](/microsoft-365/)

## Next steps

To make the most of your Visual Studio subscription, be sure to activate these great benefits:
+ [Visual Studio](vs-ide-benefit.md)
+ [Azure DevOps](vs-azure-devops.md)
+ [Azure DevTest offer / credits](/azure/devtest/offer/)
