---
title: "Common Data Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/03/2016
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - vs-ide-debug
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: ee5e964c-1222-496d-b825-166443a89d2b
caps.latest.revision: 9
manager: ghogen
translation.priority.ht: 
  - de-de
  - es-es
  - fr-fr
  - it-it
  - ja-jp
  - ko-kr
  - ru-ru
  - zh-cn
  - zh-tw
translation.priority.mt: 
  - cs-cz
  - pl-pl
  - pt-br
  - tr-tr
---
# Common Data Views
This section contains reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that are common to all profiling methods.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Summary View](../VS_IDE/Summary-View.md)  
 Describes the Summary view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Caller/Callee View](../VS_IDE/Caller-Callee-View.md)  
 Describes the Call Tree view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Call Tree View](../VS_IDE/Call-Tree-View.md)  
 Describes the Call Tree view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Modules View](../VS_IDE/Modules-View.md)  
 Describes the Modules view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Functions View](../VS_IDE/Functions-View.md)  
 Describes the Functions view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Lines View](../VS_IDE/Lines-View.md)  
 Describes the Lines view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Instruction Pointers (IPs) View](../VS_IDE/Instruction-Pointers--IPs--View.md)  
 Describes the Instruction Pointer (IP) view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Process View](../VS_IDE/Process-View.md)  
 Lists process and thread start and end times.  
  
 [Marks View](../VS_IDE/Marks-View.md)  
 Lists ETW and sampling events that were inserted into a profiling data file.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [Sampling Method Data Views](../VS_IDE/Profiler-Sampling-Method-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Instrumentation Method Data Views](../VS_IDE/Instrumentation-Method-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
 [.NET Memory Data Views](../VS_IDE/.NET-Memory-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using .NET memory collection.