---
title: "Instrumentation Method Data Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/03/2016
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - vs-ide-debug
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 481f7579-f784-49ef-bb6c-2944e9d6ab42
caps.latest.revision: 10
manager: ghogen
translation.priority.ht: 
  - de-de
  - es-es
  - fr-fr
  - it-it
  - ja-jp
  - ko-kr
  - ru-ru
  - zh-cn
  - zh-tw
translation.priority.mt: 
  - cs-cz
  - pl-pl
  - pt-br
  - tr-tr
---
# Instrumentation Method Data Views
This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Summary View](../VS_IDE/Summary-View---Instrumentation-Data.md)  
 Lists the functions that consumed the most time and the functions that did the most individual work.  
  
 [Call Tree View](../VS_IDE/Call-Tree-View---Instrumentation-Data.md)  
 Displays the execution paths of functions in a hierarchical tree.  
  
 [Modules View](../VS_IDE/Modules-View---Instrumentation-Data.md)  
 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists profiling data for the functions in the module.  
  
 [Caller/Callee View - Instrumentation Data](../VS_IDE/Caller-Callee-View---Instrumentation-Data.md)  
 Displays profiling data for the parent and child functions of a selected function.  
  
 [Functions View](../VS_IDE/Functions-View---Instrumentation-Data.md)  
 Lists profiling data by function.  
  
## Reference  
 [Function Details View](../VS_IDE/Function-Details-View.md)  
 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.  
  
 [Process View](../VS_IDE/Process-View.md)  
 Lists process start, end, and lifetime time for all processes that wer profiled.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [Sampling Method Data Views](../VS_IDE/Profiler-Sampling-Method-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [.NET Memory Data Views](../VS_IDE/.NET-Memory-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that include .NET memory data.  
  
 [Resource Contention Data Views](../VS_IDE/Resource-Contention-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the thread contention method.  
  
## See Also  
 [Understanding Instrumentation Data Values](../VS_IDE/Understanding-Instrumentation-Data-Values.md)