---
title: "Performance Report Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/04/2016
ms.prod: visual-studio-dev14
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - vs-ide-debug
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 3e84e513-dc64-40bb-b385-03281f28b519
caps.latest.revision: 24
manager: ghogen
translation.priority.ht: 
  - de-de
  - es-es
  - fr-fr
  - it-it
  - ja-jp
  - ko-kr
  - ru-ru
  - zh-cn
  - zh-tw
translation.priority.mt: 
  - cs-cz
  - pl-pl
  - pt-br
  - tr-tr
---
# Performance Report Views
This section provides reference information for the reports and views of Visual Studio Profiling Tools. Views of profiling data files are displayed in the Visual Studio integrated development environmentIDE. Reports are generated by the [VSPerfReport](../VS_IDE/VSPerfReport.md) command-line tool.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Common Data Views](../VS_IDE/Common-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are common to all profiling methods.  
  
 [Sampling Method Data Views](../VS_IDE/Profiler-Sampling-Method-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Instrumentation Method Data Views](../VS_IDE/Instrumentation-Method-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
 [.NET Memory Data Views](../VS_IDE/.NET-Memory-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that include .NET memory data.  
  
 [Resource Contention Data Views](../VS_IDE/Resource-Contention-Data-Views.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method.  
  
 [Concurrency Visualizer](../VS_IDE/Concurrency-Visualizer.md)  
 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method and that include thread execution data.  
  
 [Tier Interactions View](../VS_IDE/Tier-Interactions-View.md)  
 Reference information for the Interaction view and report of profiling data files that include tier interaction data.  
  
## See Also  
 [Analyzing Performance Tools Data](../VS_IDE/Analyzing-Performance-Tools-Data.md)