---
title: Warnings and errors | Microsoft IntelliTest Developer Test Tool
description: This article includes IntelliTest warnings and errors, divided into categories, with descriptions for each warning and error.
ms.date: 05/02/2017
ms.topic: reference
helpviewer_keywords:
- IntelliTest, Warnings and errors
ms.author: mikejo
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: test-tools
author: mikejo5000
---
# Warnings and errors

## Warnings and errors by category

* **Boundaries**
  * [MaxBranches exceeded](#maxbranches-exceeded)
  * [MaxConstraintSolverTime exceeded](#maxconstraintsolvertime-exceeded)
  * [MaxConditions exceeded](#maxconditions-exceeded)
  * [MaxCalls exceeded](#maxcalls-exceeded)
  * [MaxStack exceeded](#maxstack-exceeded)
  * [MaxRuns exceeded](#maxruns-exceeded)
  * [MaxRunsWithoutNewTests exceeded](#maxrunswithoutnewtests-exceeded)

* **Constraint Solving**
  * [Cannot Concretize Solution](#cannot-concretize-solution)

* **Domains or Runtime**
  * [Need Help To Construct Object](#help-construct)
  * [Need Help To Find Types](#help-types)
  * [Usable Type Guessed](#usable-type-guessed)

* **Execution**
  * [Unexpected Failure During Exploration](#unexpected-exploration)
  * [TargetInvocationException](#targetinvocationexception)

* **Instrumentation**
  * [Uninstrumented Method Called](#uninstrumented-method-called)
  * [External Method Called](#external-method-called)
  * [Uninstrumentable Method Called](#uninstrumentable-method-called)
  * [Testability Issue](#testability-issue)
  * [Limitation](#limitation)

* **Interpreter**
  * [Observed Call Mismatch](#observed-call-mismatch)
  * [Value Stored In Static Field](#value-static-field)

<a name="maxbranches-exceeded"></a>
## MaxBranches exceeded

IntelliTest limits the length of any execution path that it explores during
[input generation](input-generation.md). This feature prevents IntelliTest from becoming unresponsive when the program goes into an infinite loop.

Every conditional and unconditional branch of the executed and monitored code is counted towards this limit, including branches that do not depend on the inputs of the
[parameterized unit test](test-generation.md#parameterized-unit-testing).

For example, the following code consumes branches in the order of 100:

```csharp
for (int i=0; i<100; i++) { }
```

You can edit the **MaxBranches** option of an attribute derived from **PexSettingsAttributeBase**, such as [PexClass](attribute-glossary.md#pexclass) or [PexMethod](attribute-glossary.md#pexmethod). The following example effectively removes this bound:

```csharp
[PexMethod(MaxBranches=int.MaxValue)]
public void MyTest(...) {
    // ....
}
```

You can also set the **TestExcludePathBoundsExceeded**
option to inform IntelliTest how generally to deal with these issues.

In the test code, you can use
[PexSymbolicValue](static-helper-classes.md#pexsymbolicvalue) to ignore constraints generated by the loop condition:

```csharp
for (int i=0;
    PexSymbolicValue.Ignore(i<100); // IntelliTest will 'forget' about this path condition
    i++)
{ }
```

<a name="maxconstraintsolvertime-exceeded"></a>
## MaxConstraintSolverTime exceeded

IntelliTest uses a
[constraint solver](input-generation.md#constraint-solver) to compute new test inputs. Constraint solving can be a very time consuming process, so IntelliTest allows you to configure bounds - in particular, **MaxConstraintSolverTime**.

For many applications, significantly increasing the timeout will not result in better coverage. The reason for this is that most timeouts are caused by constraint systems that have no solutions. However, IntelliTest might not be able to determine that it is inconsistent without trying all possible solutions, which will result in a timeout.

<a name="maxconditions-exceeded"></a>
## MaxConditions exceeded

IntelliTest limits the length of any execution path that it explores during
[input generation](input-generation.md). This feature prevents IntelliTest from becoming unresponsive when the program enters an infinite loop.

Each conditional branch that depends on the inputs of the
[parameterized unit test](test-generation.md#parameterized-unit-testing) is counted towards this limit.

For example, each path in the following code consumes **n+1** conditions:

```csharp
[PexMethod]
void ParameterizedTest(int n) {
    // conditions are "0<n", "1<n", ..., "!(n<n)"
    for (int i=0; i<n; i++)
    { ... }

    // irrelevant for MaxConditions, since conditions do not depend on input
    for (int i=0; i<100; i++)
    { ... }
}
```

You can edit the **MaxConditions** option of an attribute derived from **PexSettingsAttributeBase**, such as [PexClass](attribute-glossary.md#pexclass) or
[PexMethod](attribute-glossary.md#pexmethod). For example:

```csharp
[PexMethod(MaxConditions=10000)]
void ParameterizedTest(int n) {
    // ...
}
```

You can also set the **TestExcludePathBoundsExceeded**
option to inform IntelliTest how to generally deal with these issues.

You can use
[PexSymbolicValue](static-helper-classes.md#pexsymbolicvalue) to ignore constraints generated by the loop condition:

```csharp
[PexMethod]
void ParameterizedTest(int n) {
    int nshadow = PexSymbolicValue.Ignore(n); // IntelliTest looses track of 'n'

    // irrelevant for MaxConditions, since nshadow is not related to input
    for (int i=0; i<nshadow; i++)
    {...}
}
```

<a name="maxcalls-exceeded"></a>
## MaxCalls exceeded

IntelliTest limits the length of any execution path that it explores during
[input generation](input-generation.md). This feature prevents IntelliTest from becoming unresponsive when the program goes enters an infinite loop.

Each call (direct, indirect, virtual, or jump) of the executed and monitored code is counted towards this limit.

You can edit the **MaxCalls** option of an attribute derived from **PexSettingsAttributeBase**, such as
[PexClass](attribute-glossary.md#pexclass) or
[PexMethod](attribute-glossary.md#pexmethod). The following example effectively removes this bound:

```csharp
[PexMethod(MaxCalls=int.MaxValue)]
public void MyTest(...) {
    // ....
}
```

You can also set the **TestExcludePathBoundsExceeded**
option to inform IntelliTest how to generally deal with these issues.

<a name="maxstack-exceeded"></a>
## MaxStack exceeded

IntelliTest limits the size of the call stack of any execution path that it explores during
[input generation](input-generation.md). This feature prevents IntelliTest from terminating when a stack overflow occurs.

You can edit the **MaxStack** option of an attribute derived from **PexSettingsAttributeBase**, such as
[PexClass](attribute-glossary.md#pexclass) or
[PexMethod](attribute-glossary.md#pexmethod). The following example effectively removes this bound (not recommended):

```csharp
[PexMethod(MaxStack=int.MaxValue)]
public void MyTest(...) {
    // ....
}
```

You can also set the **TestExcludePathBoundsExceeded**
option to inform IntelliTest how to generally deal with these issues.

<a name="maxruns-exceeded"></a>
## MaxRuns exceeded

IntelliTest limits the number of execution paths that it explores during
[input generation](input-generation.md). This feature ensures that IntelliTest terminates when the program has loops or recursion.

It may not be the case that, every time IntelliTest runs the parameterized test with particular inputs, it emits a new test case. See
[TestEmissionFilter](exploration-bounds.md#testemissionfilter) for more information.

You can edit the **MaxRuns** option of an attribute derived from **PexSettingsAttributeBase**,such as
[PexClass](attribute-glossary.md#pexclass) or
[PexMethod](attribute-glossary.md#pexmethod). The following example effectively removes this bound (not recommended):

```csharp
[PexMethod(MaxRuns=2000)]
public void MyTest(...) {
    // ....
}
```

<a name="maxrunswithoutnewtests-exceeded"></a>
## MaxRunsWithoutNewTests exceeded

IntelliTest limits the number of execution paths that it explores during
[input generation](input-generation.md). This feature ensures that IntelliTest terminates when the program has loops or recursion.

It may not be the case that, every time IntelliTest runs the parameterized test with particular inputs, it emits a new test case. See
[TestEmissionFilter](exploration-bounds.md#testemissionfilter) for more information.

While IntelliTest often finds many interesting test inputs initially, it might not - after a while -
emit any more tests. This option governs how long IntelliTest may keep trying to find another relevant test input.

You can edit the **MaxRunsWithoutNewTests** option of an attribute derived from **PexSettingsAttributeBase**, such as [PexClass](attribute-glossary.md#pexclass) or
[PexMethod](attribute-glossary.md#pexmethod). The following example effectively removes this bound (not recommended):

```csharp
[PexMethod(MaxRunsWithoutNewTests=2000)]
public void MyTest(...) {
    // ....
}
```

<a name="cannot-concretize-solution"></a>
## Cannot concretize solution

This error is often the consequence of an earlier error. IntelliTest uses a
[constraint solver](input-generation.md#constraint-solver) to determine new test inputs. Sometimes, test inputs proposed by the [constraint solver](input-generation.md#constraint-solver) are invalid. This can happen when:

* certain constraints are not known
* if values are created in a user-defined way, causing errors to occur in user code
* some of the types involved have initialization logic not controlled by IntelliTest (for example, COM classes)

<a name="help-construct"></a>
## Need help to construct object

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md), and some of the inputs may be objects with fields.
Here, IntelliTest tries to generate an instance of a class that has a private field, and it assumes that an interesting program behavior will occur when this private field has a particular value.

However, while this is possible with Reflection, IntelliTest does not manufacture objects with arbitrary field values.
Instead, in these cases, it relies on the user to provide hints about how to use the public methods of a class to create an object, and bring it into a state where its private field has the desired value.

Read [Instantiating existing classes](input-generation.md#existing-classes) to learn how you can help IntelliTest construct interesting objects.

<a name="help-types"></a>
## Need help to find types

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) for any .NET type. Here, IntelliTest tries to create an instance that derives from an abstract class or implements an abstract interface, and IntelliTest does not know of any type that fulfills the constraints.

You can help IntelliTest by pointing to one or more types that match the constraints. Usually, one of the following attributes will help:

* **PexUseTypeAttribute**, which points to a particular type.

  For example, if IntelliTest reports that it "does not know of any types assignable to **System.Collections.IDictionary**", you can help it by attaching the following **PexUseTypeAttribute** to the test (or to the fixture class):

  ```csharp
  [PexMethod]
  [PexUseType(typeof(System.Collections.Hashtable))]
  public void MyTest(IDictionary[] dictionaries) { ... }
  ```

* **An assembly-level attribute**

  ```csharp
  [assembly: PexUseType(typeof(System.Collections.Hashtable))]
  ```

<a name="usable-type-guessed"></a>
## Usable type guessed

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) for any .NET types. When a type is abstract or an interface, IntelliTest must choose a particular implementation of that type. To make that choice, it needs to know which types exist.

When this warning is shown, it indicates that IntelliTest looked at some of referenced assemblies and found an implementation type, but it is not sure if it should use that type, or if there are more appropriate types available elsewhere. IntelliTest simply chose a type that looked promising.

In order to avoid this warning, you can either accept IntelliTest's type choice, or assist IntelliTest in using other types by adding a corresponding
[PexUseType](attribute-glossary.md#pexusetype).

<a name="unexpected-exploration"></a>
## Unexpected failure during exploration

An unexpected exception was caught while exploring a test.

Please [report this as a bug](#report-bug).

<a name="targetinvocationexception"></a>
## TargetInvocationException

An exception occurred in user code. Inspect the stack trace, and remove the bug in your code.

<a name="uninstrumented-method-called"></a>
## Uninstrumented method called

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) by monitoring program execution. It is essential that the relevant code is properly instrumented so that IntelliTest can monitor its behavior.

This warning appears when the instrumented code calls methods in another, uninstrumented assembly.
If you want IntelliTest to explore the interaction of both, you must also instrument the other assembly (or parts of it).

<a name="external-method-called"></a>
## External method called

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) by monitoring execution of .NET applications.
IntelliTest cannot generate meaningful test inputs for code that is not written in a .NET language.

This warning appears when the instrumented code calls an unmanaged, native method that IntelliTest cannot analyze. If you want IntelliTest to explore the interaction of both, you must mock the unmanaged method.

<a name="uninstrumentable-method-called"></a>
## Uninstrumentable method called

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) by monitoring execution of .NET applications. However, there are some methods that, for technical reasons, IntelliTest cannot monitor . For example, IntelliTest cannot monitor a static constructor.

This warning appears when the instrumented code calls a method that IntelliTest cannot monitor.

<a name="testability-issue"></a>
## Testability issue

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) by monitoring the program execution. It can only generate relevant test inputs when the program is deterministic, and when the relevant behavior is controlled by the test inputs.

This warning appears because, during execution of your test case, a method was called that either behaves non-deterministically, or interacts with the environment. Examples are methods of **System.Random** and **System.IO.File**. If you want IntelliTest to create meaningful test inputs, you must mock the methods that IntelliTest flags as testability issues.

<a name="limitation"></a>
## Limitation

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) by using a [constraint solver](input-generation.md#constraint-solver).
However, there are some operations that are beyond the scope of the [constraint solver](input-generation.md#constraint-solver).
This currently includes:

* most floating point operations (only some linear arithmetic is supported on floating point numbers)
* conversions between floating point numbers and integers
* all operations on the **System.Decimal** type

This warning appears when the executed code performs an operation or calls a method that IntelliTest cannot interpret.

<a name="observed-call-mismatch"></a>
## Observed call mismatch

IntelliTest [generates test inputs](input-generation.md) by monitoring program execution. However, IntelliTest might not be able to monitor all instructions. For example, it cannot monitor native code, and it cannot monitor code that is not instrumented.

When IntelliTest cannot monitor code, it cannot generate test inputs that are relevant to that code.
Often, IntelliTest is not aware of the fact that it cannot monitor a method until a call to that method returns. However, the cause of this warning is:

* IntelliTest monitored some code, which initiated a call to an uninstrumented method
* The uninstrumented method called a method that is instrumented
* IntelliTest monitors the instrumented method that was called

IntelliTest does not know what the uninstrumented intermediate method did, so it might not be able to generate test inputs that are relevant to the nested instrumented call.

<a name="value-static-field"></a>
## Value stored in static field

IntelliTest can systematically determine
[relevant test inputs](input-generation.md) only when the unit test is deterministic; in other words, it always behaves the same way for the same test inputs. In particular, this means that the test should leave the system in a state that allows to re-execute that test.
Ideally, the unit test should not change any global state, but all interactions with globals should be mocked.

This warning indicates that a static field was changed; this might make the test behave non-deterministically.

In some situations, changing a static field is acceptable:

* when the test inputs causes setup or cleanup code to undo the change
* when the field is initiated only once, and the value does not change afterwards

<a name="report-bug"></a>

## Got feedback?

Post your ideas and feature requests on [Developer Community](https://aka.ms/feedback/suggest?space=8).
