docs/install/workload-component-id-vs-test-agent.md, before:

---
title: Visual Studio Test Agent workload and component IDs
titleSuffix: ''
description: Use Visual Studio workload and component IDs to run automated tests and load tests remotely
keywords:
author: anandmeg
ms.author: meghaanand
manager: mijacobs
ms.date: 05/13/2025
ms.topic: reference
helpviewer_keywords:
- workload ID, Visual Studio
- component ID, Visual Studio
- install Visual Studio, administrator guide

ms.subservice: installation
open_to_public_contributors: false
---
# Visual Studio Test Agent component directory

[!INCLUDE[workloads-components-universal-header_md](includes/workloads-components-universal-header_md.md)]

::: moniker range="vs-2019"

[!INCLUDE[workloads-components-header-2019_md](includes/workloads-components-header-2019_md.md)]

To install these components by using the manual installer, download and run the [Test Agent for Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/older-downloads/).

[!include[Visual Studio Test Agent 2019](includes/vs-2019/workload-component-id-vs-test-agent.md)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2022"

[!INCLUDE[workloads-components-header-2022_md](includes/workloads-components-header-2022.md)]

To install these components by using the manual installer, download and run the [Test Agent for Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#agents-for-visual-studio-2022).

[!include[Visual Studio Test Agent 2022](includes/vs-2022/workload-component-id-vs-test-agent.md)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= visualstudio"

::: moniker-end


[!INCLUDE[install_get_support_md](includes/install_get_support_md.md)]

## See also

* [Visual Studio workload and component IDs](workload-and-component-ids.md)
* [Visual Studio administrator guide](visual-studio-administrator-guide.md)
* [Use command-line parameters to install Visual Studio](use-command-line-parameters-to-install-visual-studio.md)
* [Command-line parameter examples](command-line-parameter-examples.md)
* [Create an offline installation of Visual Studio](create-an-offline-installation-of-visual-studio.md)

Commit message:

Revise Test Agent documentation for Visual Studio 2022
Updated documentation to clarify the last release of Test Agent and Test Controller.

docs/install/workload-component-id-vs-test-agent.md, after:

---
title: Visual Studio Test Agent workload and component IDs
titleSuffix: ''
description: Use Visual Studio workload and component IDs to run automated tests and load tests remotely
keywords:
author: anandmeg
ms.author: meghaanand
manager: mijacobs
ms.date: 05/13/2025
ms.topic: reference
helpviewer_keywords:
- workload ID, Visual Studio
- component ID, Visual Studio
- install Visual Studio, administrator guide
monikerRange: "<=vs-2022"
ms.subservice: installation
open_to_public_contributors: false
---
# Visual Studio Test Agent component directory

[!INCLUDE[workloads-components-universal-header_md](includes/workloads-components-universal-header_md.md)]

::: moniker range="vs-2019"

[!INCLUDE[workloads-components-header-2019_md](includes/workloads-components-header-2019_md.md)]

To install these components by using the manual installer, download and run the [Test Agent for Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/older-downloads/).

[!include[Visual Studio Test Agent 2019](includes/vs-2019/workload-component-id-vs-test-agent.md)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="vs-2022"

[!INCLUDE[workloads-components-header-2022_md](includes/workloads-components-header-2022.md)]

To install these components by using the manual installer, download and run the [Test Agent for Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#agents-for-visual-studio-2022).

[!include[Visual Studio Test Agent 2022](includes/vs-2022/workload-component-id-vs-test-agent.md)]

> *Visual Studio 2022 is the last release to include Test Agent and Test Controller. For details, see [Cloud-based load testing service end of life](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/devops/cloud-based-load-testing-service-end-of-life/)*

::: moniker-end

[!INCLUDE[install_get_support_md](includes/install_get_support_md.md)]

## See also

* [Visual Studio workload and component IDs](workload-and-component-ids.md)
* [Visual Studio administrator guide](visual-studio-administrator-guide.md)
* [Use command-line parameters to install Visual Studio](use-command-line-parameters-to-install-visual-studio.md)
* [Command-line parameter examples](command-line-parameter-examples.md)
* [Create an offline installation of Visual Studio](create-an-offline-installation-of-visual-studio.md)
