docs/version-control/git-browse-repository.md, before:

---
title: "Browse repos, compare branches & commits"
description: Browse any Git repository in Visual Studio by using the Git Repository window to view local and remote branches and multiple branches at the same time.
ms.date: 08/13/2024
ms.topic: how-to
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
ms.manager: mijacobs

ms.subservice: general-ide
---
# Browse Git repositories and compare branches in Visual Studio

The **Git Changes** window provides a seamless way to interact with Git while coding without having to switch away from your code. But there are times when it makes more sense to focus on your Git repository. For example, you might need to get a good picture of what your team has been working on or maybe [compare two commits](#compare-commits) to investigate a bug.

You can work remotely with the Git provider of your choice, such as GitHub or Azure DevOps.

## Browse through local and remote branches

To get started, open the **Git Repository** window by selecting **Git Repository** on the **View** menu (or by using the **Ctrl**+**0**, **Ctrl**+**R** keyboard shortcut). You can also access the **Git Repository** window by selecting the **outgoing/incoming** links in the **Git Changes** window and on the status bar.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-browse-ui.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the anatomy of the Git Repository window." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-browse-ui.png":::

The **Git Repository** window contains three main sections, as numbered in the preceding screenshot:

1. **Branches / Tags**: Git empowers users to multitask and experiment with their code through branches. Branching in Git is helpful in several scenarios, especially when working on complex projects with multiple features or when collaborating with a team. With Visual Studio 17.13 and later, you can see tags in the repo, and navigate to any tag. Your team can use git tags (for example, `v1.0`), to mark points in the history of your repo and view the state of the repo at that point in history. See [Git - Tagging](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging).

   :::image type="content" alt-text="Screenshot that shows git tags in the Git Repository window." source="./media/vs-2022/git-tags.png" lightbox="./media/vs-2022/git-tags.png" :::

1. **Graph**: This section visualizes the state of your branch. It has three subsections:

   - **Incoming** shows incoming commits that your team has been contributing.
   - **Outgoing** shows your local commits that you still haven't pushed.
   - **Local History** shows the rest of commits tracked by your local repository. 

1. **Commit**: To open this section, select any commit in the **Graph** section. You can check the changes that a commit has introduced by selecting them, which shows a difference. For example, the previous screenshot shows the changes that one commit introduced to the *Resize.cs* file.

The **Alt**+**Up arrow** or **Alt**+**Down arrow** keyboard shortcuts allow you to jump between these sections.

You can browse through any local or remote branch without having to switch your branch. When you find a commit that you want to focus on, select the **Open in New Tab** button to open the commit on a different tab.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-open-new-tab.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to open a commit on a new tab." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-open-new-tab.png":::

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-details-tab.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the tab for commit details." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-details-tab.png":::

> [!TIP]
> To display your commit in full screen, detach your **Commit** tab and maximize the **Commit** window by using the **Maximize** button. You can also select your favorite diff configuration by selecting **Diff Configuration** (the gear icon).
>
> :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-commit-details-full-screen.png" alt-text="Screenshot of full-screen commit details with diff configurations." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-commit-details-full-screen.png":::

### Multi-branch graph view

**[New with version 17.7](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes)**: When you open the Git Repo window, you start in the single branch view. You can then select any branch to add both the branch and its commits to a multi-branch graph view, which adds visual cues that make it more efficient to interact with multiple branches. 

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-multigraph-branch-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the multi-graph branch view in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-multigraph-branch-view.png":::

There's both line coloring and branch labels on the left side of the **Local History** view that help make it easier to trace which commits belong to each branch. You can use the list of branches at the top of the table to scroll between branches more easily and know immediately which branches appear in the graph.

## Compare commits

To compare any two commits in your branch, use the **Ctrl** key to select the two commits that you want to compare. Then, right-click one of them and select **Compare Commits**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-option.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to compare two commits." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-option.png":::

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-ui.png" alt-text="Screenshot of compared commits." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-ui.png":::

> [!TIP]
>Similar to **Commit Details**, you can use the **Open in New Tab** button to open the comparison on a different tab or maximize it on the screen.

## Create a branch from a commit

In Visual Studio, you can use the **Git Graph** pane in the **Git Repository** window to create branches from previous commits. To do so, right-click the commit you would like to create a new branch from, and then select **[New Branch](git-create-branch.md)**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-create-branch-from-commit.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Git Graph pane of the Git Repository window.":::

> [!NOTE]
> The equivalent command for this action is `git branch <branchname> [<commit-id>]`.

## Compare branches

Comparing branches provides an overview of differences between two branches, which can be helpful before creating a pull request, merging, or even deleting a branch.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches-illustration.png" alt-text="Diagram that illustrates how Git compares branches." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches-illustration.png":::

To compare your currently checked out branch with other branches using Visual Studio, you can utilize the branch picker hosted in the status bar and the Git changes tool window to choose any local or remote branch to compare with. Right-click the branch you're targeting and select **Compare with Current Branch**. Alternatively, you can utilize the branch list on the Git Repository window to access the same command.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches-entrypoints.gif" alt-text="Animation that shows the branches comparison entry points.":::

Selecting **Compare with Current Branch** opens the compare branches experience where you can navigate the **Changes** list and select the file that you would like to compare.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to compare branches by using the diff view." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches.png":::

> [!TIP]
> If you prefer an inline diff, you can use the Diff Configuration Options gear icon and switch to an inline diff view.
> :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-diff-configuration-options.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Diff Configuration Options that're available to you.":::

## Checkout commits

Checking out a commit can be beneficial in multiple ways. For example, it allows you to go back to a previous point in your repository’s history where you can run or test your code. It can also be helpful if you would like to review code from a remote branch (a colleague’s branch, for example). That way you don’t need to create a local branch if you aren't planning on contributing to it. In this case, you can just check out the tip of the remote branch that you would like to review.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-commit-illustration.png" alt-text="Diagram that illustrates the Git checkout commit process.":::

To check out a previous commit in Visual Studio, open the **Git Repository** window, right-click the commit you would like to go back to and select **checkout (–detach)**. Visual Studio shows a confirmation dialog explaining that by checking out a commit, you'll be in a detached HEAD state. Meaning that the HEAD of your repository is going to point directly to a commit instead of a branch.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-commit-entrypoints.gif" alt-text="Animation that shows the checkout commit entry points.":::

Now that you are in a detached head state, feel free to run and test your code or even explore and commit changes. When you're done exploring and want to go back to your branch, you can choose to discard your changes by checking out an existing branch or choose to keep your changes by **[creating a new branch](git-create-branch.md)** first.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Commits created in a detached head state are not associated with any branch and may be garbage collected by Git after you check out a branch. That is why to keep your changes, it is recommended to create a new branch before checking out a branch. For example, commits C5 and C6 will be garbage collected if we check out Main without creating a new branch.
> :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-detached-head-commits-illustration.png" alt-text="Diagram that illustrates the detached head commits in Git.":::
>
> To learn more about the detached head state, see the [Detached Head](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-checkout#_detached_head) Git documentation. 

Checking out the tip of a remote branch can be helpful if you would like to quickly review a pull request and evaluate the latest updates. To do that in Visual Studio, first make sure to fetch and get the latest updates from your remote repository. Then right-click the remote branch you would like to review and select **Checkout Tip Commit**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-tip-commit.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Checkout Tip Commit option." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-tip-commit.png":::

## Related content

- [Manage Git repositories in Visual Studio](git-manage-repository.md)
- [The Git experience in Visual Studio](git-with-visual-studio.md)

Commit message:

Add 17.14 feature: Show incoming outgoing commits only (#13912)
* Show incoming outgoing only

* Incorporate feedback

* Fixing typos per Acrolinx

---------

Co-authored-by: Shannon Leavitt <47186198+ShannonLeavitt@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/version-control/git-browse-repository.md, after:

---
title: "Browse repos, compare branches & commits"
description: Browse any Git repository in Visual Studio by using the Git Repository window to view local and remote branches and multiple branches at the same time.
ms.date: 5/6/2025
ms.topic: how-to
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
ms.manager: mijacobs

ms.subservice: general-ide
---
# Browse Git repositories and compare branches in Visual Studio

The **Git Changes** window provides a seamless way to interact with Git while coding without having to switch away from your code. But there are times when it makes more sense to focus on your Git repository. For example, you might need to get a good picture of what your team has been working on or maybe [compare two commits](#compare-commits) to investigate a bug.

You can work remotely with the Git provider of your choice, such as GitHub or Azure DevOps.

## Browse through local and remote branches

To get started, open the **Git Repository** window by selecting **Git Repository** on the **View** menu (or by using the **Ctrl**+**0**, **Ctrl**+**R** keyboard shortcut). You can also access the **Git Repository** window by selecting the **outgoing/incoming** links in the **Git Changes** window and on the status bar.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-browse-ui.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the anatomy of the Git Repository window." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-browse-ui.png":::

The **Git Repository** window contains three main sections, as numbered in the preceding screenshot:

1. **Branches / Tags**: Git empowers users to multitask and experiment with their code through branches. Branching in Git is helpful in several scenarios, especially when working on complex projects with multiple features or when collaborating with a team. With Visual Studio 17.13 and later, you can see tags in the repo, and navigate to any tag. Your team can use git tags (for example, `v1.0`), to mark points in the history of your repo and view the state of the repo at that point in history. See [Git - Tagging](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging).

   :::image type="content" alt-text="Screenshot that shows git tags in the Git Repository window." source="./media/vs-2022/git-tags.png" lightbox="./media/vs-2022/git-tags.png" :::

1. **Graph**: This section visualizes the state of your branch. It has three subsections:

   - **Incoming** shows incoming commits that your team has been contributing.
   - **Outgoing** shows your local commits that you still haven't pushed.
   - **Local History** shows the rest of commits tracked by your local repository.

1. **Commit**: To open this section, select any commit in the **Graph** section. You can check the changes that a commit has introduced by selecting them, which shows a difference. For example, the previous screenshot shows the changes that one commit introduced to the *Resize.cs* file.

The **Alt**+**Up arrow** or **Alt**+**Down arrow** keyboard shortcuts allow you to jump between these sections.

You can browse through any local or remote branch without having to switch your branch. When you find a commit that you want to focus on, select the **Open in New Tab** button to open the commit on a different tab.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-open-new-tab.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to open a commit on a new tab." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-open-new-tab.png":::

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-details-tab.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the tab for commit details." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-details-tab.png":::

> [!TIP]
> To display your commit in full screen, detach your **Commit** tab and maximize the **Commit** window by using the **Maximize** button. You can also select your favorite diff configuration by selecting **Diff Configuration** (the gear icon).
>
> :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-commit-details-full-screen.png" alt-text="Screenshot of full-screen commit details with diff configurations." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-commit-details-full-screen.png":::

### Multi-branch history view

**[New with version 17.7](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes)**: When you open the Git Repo window, you start in the single branch view. You can then select any branch to add both the branch and its commits to a multi-branch history view, which adds visual cues that make it more efficient to interact with multiple branches. 

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-multigraph-branch-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the multi-branch history view in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-multigraph-branch-view.png":::

There's both line coloring and branch labels on the left side of the **Local History** view that help make it easier to trace which commits belong to each branch. You can use the list of branches at the top of the table to scroll between branches more easily and know immediately which branches appear in the graph.

In the Branches / Tags section, hover over a branch to show the **Toggle Branch in History** hover button (the icon looks like an eye). By using the hover button, you can select which branches to show in the commit history view.

You can use the toolbar buttons at the top of the commit history view to customize the view and filter on branches.

- **Show First Parent Only**: Limit the history to only show the commit history as a single line, rather than side branches with their own sequence of commits.
- **Show Local Branches**: Toggle whether or not to show labels for local branch in the history view.
- **Show Remote Branches**: Toggle whether or not to show labels for remote branches that contribute to the commit history you're viewing.
- **Show Tags**: Toggle whether or not to show labels for tags.

  **Show Local Branches**, **Show Remote Branches**, and **Show Tags** all refer the label indicators on commits shown to the left side in the history view.

  :::image type="content" alt-text="Screenshot showing indicator labels for branches and tags in the history view." source="./media/vs-2022/git-repository-branch-labels.png" :::

**[New with version 17.14](/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes)**: To focus on unsynced commits, you can use the **Show Outgoing/Incoming Only** toolbar button to change the history view to only show outgoing commits (not yet pushed from your current branch) and incoming commits (new on the remote).

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/filter-incoming-outgoing-commits.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Git Repository window with the Show Outgoing/Incoming Only toolbar button." :::

You can also select **Show Outgoing/Incoming Only** on the context menu by right-clicking anywhere in the history view.

## Compare commits

To compare any two commits in your branch, use the **Ctrl** key to select the two commits that you want to compare. Then, right-click one of them and select **Compare Commits**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-option.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to compare two commits." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-option.png":::

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-ui.png" alt-text="Screenshot of compared commits." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-repository-compare-commits-ui.png":::

> [!TIP]
>Similar to **Commit Details**, you can use the **Open in New Tab** button to open the comparison on a different tab or maximize it on the screen.

## Create a branch from a commit

In Visual Studio, you can use the **Git Graph** pane in the **Git Repository** window to create branches from previous commits. To do so, right-click the commit you would like to create a new branch from, and then select **[New Branch](git-create-branch.md)**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-create-branch-from-commit.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Git Graph pane of the Git Repository window.":::

> [!NOTE]
> The equivalent command for this action is `git branch <branchname> [<commit-id>]`.

## Compare branches

Comparing branches provides an overview of differences between two branches, which can be helpful before creating a pull request, merging, or even deleting a branch.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches-illustration.png" alt-text="Diagram that illustrates how Git compares branches." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches-illustration.png":::

To compare your currently checked out branch with other branches using Visual Studio, you can utilize the branch picker hosted in the status bar and the Git changes tool window to choose any local or remote branch to compare with. Right-click the branch you're targeting and select **Compare with Current Branch**. Alternatively, you can utilize the branch list on the Git Repository window to access the same command.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches-entrypoints.gif" alt-text="Animation that shows the branches comparison entry points.":::

Selecting **Compare with Current Branch** opens the compare branches experience where you can navigate the **Changes** list and select the file that you would like to compare.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to compare branches by using the diff view." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-compare-branches.png":::

> [!TIP]
> If you prefer an inline diff, you can use the Diff Configuration Options gear icon and switch to an inline diff view.
> :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-diff-configuration-options.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Diff Configuration Options that're available to you.":::

## Checkout commits

Checking out a commit can be beneficial in multiple ways. For example, it allows you to go back to a previous point in your repository’s history where you can run or test your code. It can also be helpful if you would like to review code from a remote branch (a colleague’s branch, for example). That way you don’t need to create a local branch if you aren't planning on contributing to it. In this case, you can just check out the tip of the remote branch that you would like to review.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-commit-illustration.png" alt-text="Diagram that illustrates the Git checkout commit process.":::

To check out a previous commit in Visual Studio, open the **Git Repository** window, right-click the commit you would like to go back to and select **checkout (–detach)**. Visual Studio shows a confirmation dialog explaining that by checking out a commit, you'll be in a detached HEAD state. Meaning that the HEAD of your repository is going to point directly to a commit instead of a branch.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-commit-entrypoints.gif" alt-text="Animation that shows the checkout commit entry points.":::

Now that you are in a detached head state, feel free to run and test your code or even explore and commit changes. When you're done exploring and want to go back to your branch, you can choose to discard your changes by checking out an existing branch or choose to keep your changes by **[creating a new branch](git-create-branch.md)** first.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Commits created in a detached head state are not associated with any branch and may be garbage collected by Git after you check out a branch. That is why to keep your changes, it is recommended to create a new branch before checking out a branch. For example, commits C5 and C6 will be garbage collected if we check out Main without creating a new branch.
> :::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-detached-head-commits-illustration.png" alt-text="Diagram that illustrates the detached head commits in Git.":::
>
> To learn more about the detached head state, see the [Detached Head](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-checkout#_detached_head) Git documentation. 

Checking out the tip of a remote branch can be helpful if you would like to quickly review a pull request and evaluate the latest updates. To do that in Visual Studio, first make sure to fetch and get the latest updates from your remote repository. Then right-click the remote branch you would like to review and select **Checkout Tip Commit**.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-tip-commit.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Checkout Tip Commit option." lightbox="media/vs-2022/git-checkout-tip-commit.png":::

## Related content

- [Manage Git repositories in Visual Studio](git-manage-repository.md)
- [The Git experience in Visual Studio](git-with-visual-studio.md)
