---
description: "The Caller/Callee view displays profiling information for a selected function and its parent and child functions."
title: "Caller-Callee View | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
f1_keywords:
  - "vs.performance.view.callercallee"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "profiling tools, reports, Caller/Callee view"
  - "profiling tools, Caller/Callee view"
  - "performance reports, Caller/Callee view"
  - "Caller/Callee view"
ms.assetid: d3511bcf-cce0-4cbe-aecb-b94c7c80ad1b
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-debug
monikerRange: 'vs-2017'
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# Caller/Callee view
The Caller/Callee view displays profiling information for a selected function and its parent and child functions. The Caller/Callee view contains three grids:

 **Current function** is displayed in the middle grid, and it shows profiling information for the selected function. The values include all calls to the function that were collected in the profiling run.

 **Functions that called the current function** is displayed in the top grid, and it shows the number of the values of the selected (current) function that were generated by calls from the caller (parent) function.

 **Functions that were called by the current function** is displayed in the bottom grid, and it shows profiling information for the callee (child) functions of the selected function when the child function was called by the current function.

 The columns that are available in the Caller/Callee view depend on the profiling method (sampling or instrumentation) that was used to collect the data, and whether .NET memory data was collected in the profiling run.

 You can select a different function to be the Current Function in the middle part of the Report view by double-clicking any one of the functions that are listed in the other two parts of the view. The Report view is updated automatically to reflect the changes.

 You can sort the data by clicking column names. Additional columns can be added to the Caller/Callee view. For more information, see [How to: Customize report view columns](../profiling/how-to-customize-report-view-columns.md).

## See also
- [Caller/Callee view - sampling data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-sampling-data.md)
- [Caller/Callee view - instrumentation data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-instrumentation-data.md)
- [Caller/Callee view - .NET memory instrumentation data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-net-memory-instrumentation-data.md)
- [Caller/Callee view - .NET memory sampling data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)
- [Caller/Callee view -  contention data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-contention-data.md)
