---
title: "Common Data Views"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: "10/14/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-debug"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Profiling Tools,views"
  - "Profiling Tools,reports"
ms.assetid: ee5e964c-1222-496d-b825-166443a89d2b
caps.latest.revision: 9
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
translation.priority.mt: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "tr-tr"
---
# Common Data Views
This section contains reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that are common to all profiling methods.  
  
## In This Section  
 [Summary View](../profiling/summary-view.md)  
 Describes the Summary view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Caller/Callee View](../profiling/caller-callee-view.md)  
 Describes the Call Tree view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Call Tree View](../profiling/call-tree-view.md)  
 Describes the Call Tree view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Modules View](../profiling/modules-view.md)  
 Describes the Modules view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Functions View](../profiling/functions-view.md)  
 Describes the Functions view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Lines View](../profiling/lines-view.md)  
 Describes the Lines view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Instruction Pointers (IPs) View](../profiling/instruction-pointers--ips--view.md)  
 Describes the Instruction Pointer (IP) view and report. The data columns depend on the profiling method.  
  
 [Process View](../profiling/process-view.md)  
 Lists process and thread start and end times.  
  
 [Marks View](../profiling/marks-view.md)  
 Lists ETW and sampling events that were inserted into a profiling data file.  
  
## Related Sections  
 [Sampling Method Data Views](../profiling/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.  
  
 [Instrumentation Method Data Views](../profiling/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)  
 Reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.  
  
 [.NET Memory Data Views](../profiling/.net-memory-data-views.md)  
 Reference information about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using .NET memory collection.