---
title: ".NET Memory Data Views | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - ".NET memory profiling method views"
  - "profiling tools,.NET memory profiling views"
ms.assetid: 79184d8e-769b-4ace-be2b-521147772081
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: jillfra
monikerRange: 'vs-2017'
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# .NET memory data views
This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that contains .NET memory profiling data.

## In this section
- [Summary View](../profiling/summary-view-dotnet-memory-data.md)

 Lists the functions and types that allocated the most memory.

- [Allocations View](../profiling/dotnet-memory-allocations-view.md)

 Lists the types that were allocated in the profiling run, and the call trees (execution paths) that resulted in the allocation of the type.

- [Object Lifetime View](../profiling/object-lifetime-view.md)

 Lists the types that were allocated in the profiling run, and the number of instances, size in bytes, and the garbage collection generation of the type.

- [Call Tree View - Sampling](../profiling/call-tree-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)

 Displays a hierarchical tree that represents the execution paths and memory allocation data of functions in the profiling run.

- [Modules View - Sampling](../profiling/modules-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)

 Organizes .NET memory allocation data by module, and lists the functions, source code lines, and instructions that were executing when memory was allocated.

- [Caller/Callee View - .NET Memory Sampling Data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)

 Lists memory allocation data for a selected function, the functions that called the selected function, and the functions that were called by the selected function.

- [Functions View - Sampling](../profiling/functions-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)

 Lists memory allocation data for the functions in the profiling run.

- [Lines View - Sampling](../profiling/lines-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)

 Lists memory allocation data for the source code lines of functions in the profiling run.

- [Instruction Pointers (IPs) View - Sampling](../profiling/instruction-pointers-ips-view-dotnet-memory-sampling-data.md)

 Lists memory allocation data for the instructions of functions in the profiling run.

- [Call Tree View - Instrumentation](../profiling/call-tree-view-dotnet-memory-instrumentation-data.md)

 Displays a hierarchical tree that represents the execution paths, memory allocation data, and detailed timing data for instrumented functions in the profiling run.

- [Modules View - Instrumentation](../profiling/modules-view-dotnet-memory-instrumentation-data.md)

 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists the functions, memory allocation data, and detailed timing information for the module.

- [Caller/Callee View - NET Memory Instrumentation Data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-net-memory-instrumentation-data.md)

 Lists memory allocation data and detailed timing information for a selected instrumented function, the functions that called the selected function, and the functions that were called by the selected function.

- [Functions View - Instrumentation](../profiling/functions-view-dotnet-memory-instrumentation-data.md)

 Lists memory allocation data for the instrumented functions in the profiling run.

## Reference
- [Function Details View](../profiling/function-details-view.md)

 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.

- [Process View](../profiling/process-view.md)

 Lists process and thread start and end times.

- [Marks View](../profiling/marks-view.md)

 Lists ETW and sampling events that were inserted into a profiling data file.

## Related sections
- [Sampling Method Data Views](../profiling/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.

- [Instrumentation Method Data Views](../profiling/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.
