---
title: "Instrumentation Method Data Views | Microsoft Docs"
description: Learn about reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "profiling tools,instrumentation method views"
  - "instrumentation profiling method"
ms.assetid: 481f7579-f784-49ef-bb6c-2944e9d6ab42
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-debug
monikerRange: 'vs-2017'
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# Instrumentation method data views
This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.

## In this section
- [Summary View](../profiling/summary-view-instrumentation-data.md)

 Lists the functions that consumed the most time and the functions that did the most individual work.

- [Call Tree View](../profiling/call-tree-view-instrumentation-data.md)

 Displays the execution paths of functions in a hierarchical tree.

- [Modules View](../profiling/modules-view-instrumentation-data.md)

 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists profiling data for the functions in the module.

- [Caller/Callee View - Instrumentation Data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-instrumentation-data.md)

 Displays profiling data for the parent and child functions of a selected function.

- [Functions View](../profiling/functions-view-instrumentation-data.md)

 Lists profiling data by function.

## Reference
- [Function Details View](../profiling/function-details-view.md)

 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.

- [Process View](../profiling/process-view.md)

 Lists process start, end, and lifetime time for all processes that were profiled.

## Related sections
- [Sampling method data views](../profiling/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.

- [.NET memory data views](../profiling/dotnet-memory-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that include .NET memory data.

- [Resource contention data views](../profiling/resource-contention-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the thread contention method.

## See also
- [Understanding instrumentation data values](../profiling/understanding-instrumentation-data-values.md)
