---
title: "Performance Report Views | Microsoft Docs"
description: Learn how views of profiling data files are displayed in the Visual Studio integrated development environmentIDE.
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "reports, profiling tools"
  - "profiling tools reports"
  - "profiling tools, report views"
ms.assetid: 3e84e513-dc64-40bb-b385-03281f28b519
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-debug
monikerRange: 'vs-2017'
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# Performance Report views
This section provides reference information for the reports and views of [!INCLUDE[vsprvs](../code-quality/includes/vsprvs_md.md)] Profiling Tools. Views of profiling data files are displayed in the [!INCLUDE[vs_current_short](../code-quality/includes/vs_current_short_md.md)] integrated development environmentIDE. Reports are generated by the [VSPerfReport](../profiling/vsperfreport.md) command-line tool.

## In this section
- [Common Data views](../profiling/common-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are common to all profiling methods.

- [Sampling Method Data views](../profiling/profiler-sampling-method-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the sampling method.

- [Instrumentation Method Data views](../profiling/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the instrumentation method.

- [.NET Memory Data views](../profiling/dotnet-memory-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that include .NET memory data.

- [Resource Contention Data views](../profiling/resource-contention-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method.

- [Concurrency Visualizer](../profiling/concurrency-visualizer.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiling data files that are generated by using the concurrency method and that include thread execution data.

- [Tier Interactions View](../profiling/tier-interactions-view.md)

 Reference information for the Interaction view and report of profiling data files that include tier interaction data.

## See also
- [Analyze performance tools data](../profiling/analyzing-performance-tools-data.md)
