docs/profiling/performance-insights-zero-length-array-allocations.md, before:

---
title: Performance insights for zero-length array allocations
description: Learn how to improve performance for zero-length array allocations.
ms.date: 3/7/2025
ms.topic: reference
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: debug-diagnostics
---

# Zero-length array allocations

This article describes performance insights for zero-length array allocations.

## Cause

Allocating zero-length arrays in .NET can lead to unnecessary memory allocations. These allocations, although small, can accumulate and cause performance issues, especially in high-performance or memory-constrained applications.

## Performance insight description

When a zero-length array is allocated, it results in a memory allocation that's not necessary. Instead of creating a new array, it's more efficient to use the statically allocated empty array instance provided by the `Array.Empty<T>()` method. This method returns a cached, empty array of the specified type, avoiding the overhead of a new allocation.

## How to investigate a warning

Click the **Investigate** link to go to the [Allocation](../profiling/dotnet-alloc-tool.md#allocation) view showing the allocated zero length array. Double clicking on the allocation shows you the code paths where the allocations are occurring. Consider reducing these allocations using the statically allocated empty array instance provided by `Array.Empty<T>()`.

Here is an example of an empty array allocation and its resolution:

Violation:

```csharp
class Example
{
    public void Method()
    {
        var array = new int[0];
    }
}
```

Resolution:

```csharp
class Example
{
    public void Method()
    {
        var array = Array.Empty<int>();
    }
}
```

## Additional resources

For more information on avoiding zero-length array allocations and other performance best practices, see the following resource:

[CA1825: Avoid zero-length array allocations (code analysis)](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1825)
 
By following these guidelines, you can ensure that your application is optimized for performance and avoids unnecessary memory overhead.

Commit message:

Add Copilot information to zero-length array profiling article

docs/profiling/performance-insights-zero-length-array-allocations.md, after:

---
title: Performance insights for zero-length array allocations
description: Learn how to improve performance for zero-length array allocations.
ms.date: 8/29/2025
ms.topic: reference
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: debug-diagnostics
---

# Zero-length array allocations

This article describes performance insights for zero-length array allocations.

## Cause

Allocating zero-length arrays in .NET can lead to unnecessary memory allocations. These allocations, although small, can accumulate and cause performance issues, especially in high-performance or memory-constrained applications.

## Performance insight description

When a zero-length array is allocated, it results in a memory allocation that's not necessary. Instead of creating a new array, it's more efficient to use the statically allocated empty array instance provided by the `Array.Empty<T>()` method. This method returns a cached, empty array of the specified type, avoiding the overhead of a new allocation.

## How to investigate a warning

Click the **Investigate** link to go to the [Allocation](../profiling/dotnet-alloc-tool.md#allocation) view showing the allocated zero length array. Double clicking on the allocation shows you the code paths where the allocations are occurring. Consider reducing these allocations using the statically allocated empty array instance provided by `Array.Empty<T>()`.

::: moniker range="visualstudio"
Starting in Visual Studio version 18.0.0 Preview 1 or later, if Copilot is enabled, you see the **Ask Copilot** ![Screenshot of Ask Copilot button.](../debugger/media/vs-2022/debug-with-copilot-ask-copilot-button.png) button. Select the button, and Copilot provides a detailed analysis of the allocation patterns and suggests code fixes to optimize your memory usage.
::: moniker-end

Here is an example of an empty array allocation and its resolution:

Violation:

```csharp
class Example
{
    public void Method()
    {
        var array = new int[0];
    }
}
```

Resolution:

```csharp
class Example
{
    public void Method()
    {
        var array = Array.Empty<int>();
    }
}
```

## Additional resources

For more information on avoiding zero-length array allocations and other performance best practices, see the following resource:

[CA1825: Avoid zero-length array allocations (code analysis)](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1825)
 
By following these guidelines, you can ensure that your application is optimized for performance and avoids unnecessary memory overhead.
