---
title: "Profiler Sampling Method Data Views | Microsoft Docs"
description: Learn about the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.topic: "conceptual"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Profiling Tools,sampling data views"
  - "sampling data views"
ms.assetid: 798de693-e43a-4056-aff5-48310c2172c5
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-debug
monikerRange: 'vs-2017'
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# Profiler sampling method data views
This section contains reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the sampling method.

> [!NOTE]
> Enhanced security features in Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 required significant changes in the way the Visual Studio profiler collects data on these platforms. UWP apps also require new collection techniques. See [Performance Tools on Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 applications](../profiling/performance-tools-on-windows-8-and-windows-server-2012-applications.md).

## In this section
- [Summary view](../profiling/summary-view-sampling-data.md)

 Lists the functions that were executing most frequently when samples were collected and the functions that were performing the most individual work.

- [Call Tree view](../profiling/call-tree-view-sampling-data.md)

 Displays the execution paths of functions in a hierarchical tree.

- [Modules view](../profiling/modules-view-sampling-data.md)

 Organizes profiling data by module, and lists the functions, source code lines, and instructions that were executing when samples were collected.

- [Caller / Callee view - Sampling Data](../profiling/caller-callee-view-sampling-data.md)

 Displays profiling data for a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.

- [Functions view](../profiling/functions-view-sampling-data.md)

 Organizes profiling by function, and lists the functions that were executing when samples were collected.

- [Lines view](../profiling/lines-view-sampling-data.md)

 Lists the source code lines that were executing when samples were collected.

- [Instruction Pointers (IPs) view](../profiling/instruction-pointers-ips-view-sampling-data.md)

 Lists the source code lines that were executing when samples were collected.

## Reference
- [Process view](../profiling/process-view.md)

 Lists process and thread start and end times.

- [Marks view](../profiling/marks-view.md)

 Lists ETW and sampling events that were inserted into a profiling data file.

- [Function Details view](../profiling/function-details-view.md)

 Displays a graphical chart of the relationship between a selected function and the functions that called and were called by the selected function.

## Related sections
- [Instrumentation method data views](../profiling/instrumentation-method-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that were generated by using the instrumentation method.

- [.NET memory data views](../profiling/dotnet-memory-data-views.md)

 Reference information for the views and reports of profiler data files that include .NET memory data.

## See also
- [Understand sampling data values](../profiling/understanding-sampling-data-values.md)
