---
title: Manage Python application projects
description: Explore how projects in Visual Studio manage dependencies between files and the complexity of relationships in an application.
ms.date: 04/18/2024
ms.topic: how-to
author: cwebster-99
ms.author: cowebster
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: python

# CustomerIntent: As a developer, I want to manage Python projects in Visual Studio so I can configure dependencies between files and relationships in my application.
---

# Python projects in Visual Studio

Python applications are typically defined by using only folders and files. This structure can become complex as applications grow and perhaps involve autogenerated files, JavaScript for web applications, and so on. A [Visual Studio project](../ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio.md#projects) can help you manage the complexity. The project (a `.pyproj` file) identifies all the source and content files associated with your project. It contains build information for each file, maintains the information to integrate with source-control systems, and helps you organize your application into logical components.

:::image type="content" source="media/projects-solution-explorer.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows a Python project open in Solution Explorer in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/projects-solution-explorer.png":::

Projects are always managed within a [Visual Studio solution](../ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio.md#solutions). A solution can contain any number of projects that might reference one another, such as a Python project that references a C++ project that implements an extension module. With this relationship, Visual Studio automatically builds the C++ project (if necessary) when you start debugging the Python project. For more information, see [Solutions and projects in Visual Studio](../ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio.md).

Visual Studio provides various Python project templates to quickly create several types of application structures. You can choose a template to create a project from an existing folder tree or create a clean, empty project. For a list of available templates, see the table in the [Project templates](#project-templates) section.

## Tips for working with Python projects

You don't have to use projects to run Python code in Visual Studio, but there are benefits to doing so. As you get started, review the following considerations about working with projects and Python.

- In Visual Studio 2019 and later, you can open a folder that has Python code and run the code without creating Visual Studio project and solution files.

   The guided steps for this approach are available in the [Quickstart: Open and run Python code in a folder](quickstart-05-python-visual-studio-open-folder.md) article.

- You don't need a project to run Python code in Visual Studio. All versions of Visual Studio work well with Python code.

   You can open a Python file by itself and immediately access autocomplete, IntelliSense, and debugging features. However, there are some potential drawbacks to working with the code without a project:

   - Because the code always uses the default global environment, you might see incorrect completions or errors if the code is meant for a different environment.
   - Visual Studio analyzes all files and packages in the folder from which the single file is opened. This process can consume considerable CPU time.

- You can create a Visual Studio project from existing code. This approach is described in the [Create a project from existing files](#create-a-project-from-existing-files) section.

## Basic project tasks: files, environments, and start up

When you use projects with your Python code, you complete basic tasks, including adding files, assigning a startup file, and setting the Python interpreter environment.

As you develop your application, you typically need to add new files of different types to your project. It's easy to add more files. Right-click your project, select **Add** > **Existing Item**, and browse to find the type of file to add. The **Add** > **New Item** option opens a dialog that shows item templates that you can use to create the new file. Options include empty Python files, a Python class, a unit test, and various files related to web applications. You can explore the template options with a test project to learn what's available in your version of Visual Studio. For more information, see the [item templates](python-item-templates.md) reference.

Each Python project has one assigned startup file, which is shown in boldface in **Solution Explorer**. The startup file runs when you begin debugging (by selecting F5 or **Debug** > **Start Debugging**) or when you run your project in the **Interactive** window. You can open this window with the keyboard shortcut Shift + Alt + F5 or by selecting **Debug** > **Execute Project in Python Interactive**. To change the startup file, right-click the file to use and select **Set as Startup Item** (or **Set as Startup File** in older versions of Visual Studio).

If you remove the selected startup file from a project and don't select an alternate file, Visual Studio doesn't know what Python file to use to start the project. In this case, Visual Studio 2017 version 15.6 and later shows an error. Earlier versions either open an output window with the Python interpreter running, or the output window opens and then immediately closes. If you encounter any of these behaviors, check that you have an assigned startup file.

> [!TIP]
> To keep the output window open, right-click your project and select **Properties**. In the dialog, select the **Debug** tab, and then add the `-i` flag to the **Interpreter Arguments** field. This argument causes the interpreter to go into interactive mode after a program completes. The window stays open until you close it, such as by using the keyboard shortcut **Ctrl**+**E**+**Enter**.

A new project is always associated with the default global Python environment. To associate the project with a different environment (including virtual environments), right-click the **Python Environments** node in the project. Select **Add Environment** and then select the environments you want. You can also use the environments drop-down control on the toolbar to select an environment or add another environment to the project.

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/environments-toolbar-2022.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Add Environment command on the Python toolbar in Visual Studio.":::

To change the active environment, right-click the desired environment in **Solution Explorer** and select **Activate Environment** as shown in the following image. For more information, see [Select an environment for a project](selecting-a-python-environment-for-a-project.md).

:::image type="content" source="media/vs-2022/projects-activate-environment-2022.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to activate an environment for a Python project in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/vs-2022/projects-activate-environment-2022.png":::

## Project templates

Visual Studio gives you many ways to set up a Python project, either from scratch or from existing code. To use a template, select **File** > **New** > **Project** or right-click the solution in **Solution Explorer** and select **Add** > **New Project**. In the **new project** dialog, you can see Python-specific templates by searching on *Python* or by selecting the **Language** > **Python** node:

:::image type="content" source="media/projects-new-project-dialog.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the new project dialog with available Python templates in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/projects-new-project-dialog.png":::

::: moniker range=">=vs-2022"

The following templates are available in Visual Studio version 2022.

| Template | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [**From existing Python code**](#create-a-project-from-existing-files) | Creates a Visual Studio project from existing Python code in a folder structure. |
| **Python Application** | Provides a basic project structure for a new Python application with a single, empty source file. By default, the project runs in the console interpreter of the default global environment. You can change [assign a different environment](selecting-a-python-environment-for-a-project.md). |
| [**Web projects**](python-web-application-project-templates.md) | Projects for web apps based on various frameworks including Bottle, Django, and Flask. |
| **Background Application (IoT)** | Supports deploying Python projects to run as background services on devices. For more information, see the [Windows IoT Dev Center](https://dev.windows.com/en-us/iot). |
| **Python Extension Module** | This template appears under Visual C++ if you install the **Python native development tools** with the Python workload in Visual Studio 2017 or later (see [Installation](installing-python-support-in-visual-studio.md)). The template provides the core structure for a C++ extension DLL, similar to the structure described in [Create a C++ extension for Python](working-with-c-cpp-python-in-visual-studio.md). |

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="<=vs-2019"

The following templates are available in Visual Studio version 2019. Not all templates available in version 2019 are available in earlier versions of Visual Studio.

| Template | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [**From existing Python code**](#create-a-project-from-existing-files) | Creates a Visual Studio project from existing Python code in a folder structure. |
| **Python Application** | Provides a basic project structure for a new Python application with a single, empty source file. By default, the project runs in the console interpreter of the default global environment. You can change [assign a different environment](selecting-a-python-environment-for-a-project.md). |
| [**Web projects**](python-web-application-project-templates.md) | Projects for web apps based on various frameworks including Bottle, Django, and Flask. |
| **Background Application (IoT)** | Supports deploying Python projects to run as background services on devices. For more information, see the [Windows IoT Dev Center](https://dev.windows.com/en-us/iot). |
| **Python Extension Module** | This template appears under Visual C++ if you install the **Python native development tools** with the Python workload in Visual Studio 2017 or later (see [Installation](installing-python-support-in-visual-studio.md)). The template provides the core structure for a C++ extension DLL, similar to the structure described in [Create a C++ extension for Python](working-with-c-cpp-python-in-visual-studio.md). |
| **IronPython Application** | Uses IronPython by default and enables .NET interop and mixed-mode debugging with .NET languages. This template is similar to the Python Application template. |
| **IronPython WPF Application** | Provides a project structure by using IronPython with Windows Presentation Foundation XAML files for the application user interface. Visual Studio provides a XAML UI designer, code-behind can be written in Python, and the application runs without displaying a console. |
| **IronPython Silverlight Web Page** | Creates an IronPython project that runs in a browser by using Silverlight. The application's Python code is included in the web page as script. A boilerplate script tag pulls down JavaScript code to initialize IronPython running inside of Silverlight, from which your Python code can interact with the DOM. |
| **IronPython Windows Forms Application** | Builds a project structure with IronPython and UI created by using code with Windows Forms. The application runs without displaying a console. |

::: moniker-end

> [!Note]
> Because Python is an interpreted language, Python projects in Visual Studio don't produce a stand-alone executable like other compiled language projects such as C#. For more information, see [questions and answers](overview-of-python-tools-for-visual-studio.md#questions-and-answers).

### Create a project from existing files

[!INCLUDE[project-from-existing](includes/project-from-existing.md)]

## Linked files

Linked files are files that are brought into a project but typically reside outside of the application's project folders. These files appear in **Solution Explorer** as normal files with an overlaid shortcut icon: :::image type="icon" source="media/projects-linked-file-icon.png":::

Linked files are specified in the `.pyproj` file by using the `<Compile Include="...">` element. Linked files are **implicit** if they use a relative path outside of the directory structure. If the files use paths within **Solution Explorer**, the linked files are **explicit**. The following example shows explicitly linked files:

```xml
<Compile Include="..\test2.py">
    <Link>MyProject\test2.py</Link>
</Compile>
```

Linked files are ignored under the following conditions:

- The linked file contains `Link` metadata and the path specified in the `Include` attribute lives within the project directory.
- The linked file duplicates a file that exists within the project hierarchy.
- The linked file contains `Link` metadata and the `Link` path is a relative path outside of the project hierarchy.
- The link path is rooted.

### Work with linked files

To add an existing item as a link, right-click the folder in the project where you want to add the file and select **Add** > **Existing Item**. In the dialog, select a file and then select **Add** > **Add as Link**. If there are no conflicting files, this command creates a link in the selected folder. However, the link isn't added if there's an existing file with the same name or a link to that file already exists in the project.

If you attempt to link to a file that already exists in the project folders, the file is added as a normal file and not as a link. To convert a file into a link, select **File** > **Save As** to save the file to a location outside of the project hierarchy. Visual Studio automatically converts the file into a link. Similarly, a link can be converted back by using **File** > **Save As** to save the file somewhere within the project hierarchy.

If you move a linked file in **Solution Explorer**, the link is moved but the actual file is unaffected. Similarly, deleting a link removes the link without affecting the file.

Linked files can't be renamed.

## References

Visual Studio projects support adding references to projects and extensions, which appear under the **References** node in **Solution Explorer**:

:::image type="content" source="media/projects-extension-references.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to Add an extension reference in Python projects in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/projects-extension-references.png":::

Extension references typically indicate dependencies between projects and are used to provide IntelliSense at design time or linking at compile time. Python projects use references in a similar fashion, but due to the dynamic nature of Python they're primarily used at design time to provide improved IntelliSense. They can also be used for deployment to Microsoft Azure to install other dependencies.

### Work with extension modules

A reference to a `.pyd` file enables IntelliSense for the generated module. Visual Studio loads the `.pyd` file into the Python interpreter and introspects its types and functions. Visual Studio also attempts to parse the doc strings for functions to provide signature help.

If at any time the extension module is updated on disk, Visual Studio reanalyzes the module in the background. This action has no effect on run-time behavior but some completions aren't available until analysis is complete.

You might also need to add a [search path](search-paths.md) to the folder that contains the module.

### Work with .NET projects

When working with IronPython, you can add references to .NET assemblies to enable IntelliSense. For .NET projects in your solution, right-click the **References** node in your Python project, and select **Add Reference**. In the dialog, select the **Projects** tab, and browse to the desired project. For DLLs that you downloaded separately, select the **Browse** tab instead and browse to the desired DLL.

Because references in IronPython aren't available until after a call to the `clr.AddReference('<AssemblyName>')` method, you also need to add an appropriate `clr.AddReference` method call to the assembly. This call is typically added at the beginning of your code. For example, the code created by the **IronPython Windows Forms Application** (available in Visual Studio 2019) project template in Visual Studio includes two calls at the top of the file:

```python
import clr
clr.AddReference('System.Drawing')
clr.AddReference('System.Windows.Forms')

from System.Drawing import *
from System.Windows.Forms import *

# Other code omitted
```

### Work with WebPI projects

You can add references to Web Platform Installer (WebPI) product entries for deployment to Microsoft Azure Cloud Services where you can install more components via the WebPI feed. By default, the feed displayed is Python-specific and includes Django, CPython, and other core components. You can also select your own feed as shown in the following image. When you publish to Microsoft Azure, a setup task installs all of the referenced products.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> WebPI projects aren't available in Visual Studio 2017 or Visual Studio 2019.

:::image type="content" source="media/projects-webPI-components.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows Web Platform Installer (WebPI) references in Visual Studio." lightbox="media/projects-webPI-components.png":::

## Related content

- [Solutions and projects in Visual Studio](../ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio.md)
- [Select an environment for a project](selecting-a-python-environment-for-a-project.md)
- [Install Python support in Visual Studio](installing-python-support-in-visual-studio.md)
