---
title: "C26411 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/15/2017"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-code-analysis"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "C26411"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C26411"
ms.assetid: 5134e51e-8b92-4ee7-94c3-022e318a0e24
author: mikeblome
ms.author: mblome
manager: ghogen
ms.workload: 
  - "multiple"
---
# C26411  NO_REF_TO_UNIQUE_PTR
Passing a unique pointer by reference assumes that its resource may be released or transferred inside of a target function. If function uses its parameter only to access the resource, it is safe to pass a raw pointer or a reference.

## Remarks
- The limitations from the warning C26410 are applicable here as well.
- The heuristic to detect "release" or "reset" access to the unique pointer is rather naïve: we only detect calls to assignment operators and methods named "reset" (case-insensitive). Obviously, this doesn’t cover all possible cases of smart pointer modifications (e.g. std::swap, or any special non-const method in a custom smart pointer). It is expected that this warning will produce many false positives on custom types, as well as in some scenarios dealing with standard unique pointers. The heuristic will be improved as we implement more checks focused on smart pointers.
- Smart pointers are often templates. This brings an interesting limitation related to the fact that the compiler is not required to process template code in templates if it is not used. In some minimal code bases that have very limited use of smart pointer interfaces, the checker may produce unexpected results due its inability to properly identify semantics of the template type (because some important methods may never be used). For the standard `unique_pointer` this limitation if mitigated by recognizing the type’s name. This may be extended in future to cover more well-known smart pointers.
- Lambda expressions with implicit capture-by-reference may lead to surprising warnings about references to unique pointers. Currently all captured reference parameters in lambdas are reported regardless whether they are reset or not. The heuristic here must be extended to correlate lambda fields with lambda parameters. This will be addressed in the next releases (after Visual Studio 2017 version 15.3)

## Example 1: Unnecessary reference
```cpp
void TraceValid(std::unique_ptr<Slot> &slot)    // C26411
{
    if (!IsDamaged(slot.get()))
        std::cout << *slot.get();
}

void ReleaseValid(std::unique_ptr<Slot> &slot)  // OK
{
    if (!IsDamaged(slot.get()))
        slot.reset(nullptr);
}
```