---
title: "C6278 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/04/2016"
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-devops-test"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "C6278"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "C6278"
ms.assetid: 5cc3c393-c48a-4f91-9f38-03d7868be5e5
caps.latest.revision: 14
author: "corob-msft"
ms.author: "corob"
manager: "ghogen"
translation.priority.ht: 
  - "cs-cz"
  - "de-de"
  - "es-es"
  - "fr-fr"
  - "it-it"
  - "ja-jp"
  - "ko-kr"
  - "pl-pl"
  - "pt-br"
  - "ru-ru"
  - "tr-tr"
  - "zh-cn"
  - "zh-tw"
---
# C6278
warning C6278: \<variable> is allocated with array new [], but deleted with scalar delete. Destructors will not be called  
  
 This warning appears only in C++ code and indicates that the calling function has inconsistently allocated memory with the array **new []** operator, but freed it with the scalar **delete** operator. This is undefined behavior according to the C++ standard and the Microsoft Visual C++ implementation. There are at least three reasons that this is likely to cause problems:  
  
-   The constructors for the individual objects in the array are invoked, but the destructors are not invoked.  
  
-   If global, or class-specific, **operator new** and **operator delete** are not compatible with **operator new[]** and **operator delete[]**, unexpected results are likely to occur.  
  
-   It is always very risky to rely on undefined behavior.  
  
 The exact ramifications of this defect are difficult to predict. It might result in leaks for classes with destructors that perform memory de-allocation; inconsistent behavior for classes with destructors that perform some semantically significant operation; or memory corruptions and crashes when operators have been overridden. In other cases the mismatch might be unimportant, depending on the implementation of the compiler and its libraries. Analysis tool cannot always distinguish between these situations.  
  
 If memory is allocated with array **new []**, it should be typically be freed with array **delete[]**.  
  
## Example  
 The following sample code generates this warning:  
  
```  
class A  
{  
  // members  
};  
  
void f( )  
{  
  A *pA = new A[5];  
  // code ...  
  delete pA;  
}  
```  
  
 To correct this warning, use the following sample code:  
  
```  
void f( )  
{  
  A *pA = new A[5];  
  // code ...  
  delete[] pA;  
}  
```  
  
 If the underlying object in the array is a primitive type such as `int`, `float`, `enum`, or pointer, there are no destructors to be called. In these cases warning [C6283](../code-quality/c6283.md) is reported instead.  
  
 The use of new and delete have many pitfalls in terms of memory leaks and exceptions. To avoid these kinds of leaks and exception problems altogether, use the mechanisms that are provided by the C++ Standard Template Library (STL). These include [shared_ptr](/visual-cpp/standard-library/shared-ptr-class), [unique_ptr](/visual-cpp/standard-library/unique-ptr-class), and [vector](../Topic/%3Cvector%3E.md). For more information, see [Smart Pointers](/visual-cpp/cpp/smart-pointers-modern-cpp) and [C++ Standard Library](/visual-cpp/standard-library/cpp-standard-library-reference).