---
title: 'CA1023: Indexers should not be multidimensional'
description: "A public or protected type contains a public or protected indexer that uses more than one index."
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IndexersShouldNotBeMultidimensional
- CA1023
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1023
- IndexersShouldNotBeMultidimensional
ms.assetid: ae499879-97f6-434e-a61d-1fedd231d2fb
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1023: Indexers should not be multidimensional

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1023|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause
A public or protected type contains a public or protected indexer that uses more than one index.

## Rule description
Indexers, that is, indexed properties, should use a single index. Multi-dimensional indexers can significantly reduce the usability of the library. If the design requires multiple indexes, reconsider whether the type represents a logical data store. If not, use a method.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, change the design to use a lone integer or string index, or use a method instead of the indexer.

## When to suppress warnings
Suppress a warning from this rule only after carefully considering the need for the nonstandard indexer.

## Example
The following example shows a type, `DayOfWeek03`, with a multi-dimensional indexer that violates the rule. The indexer can be seen as a type of conversion and therefore is more appropriately exposed as a method. The type is redesigned in `RedesignedDayOfWeek03` to satisfy the rule.

:::code language="vb" source="../snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Design.OneDimensionForIndexer/vb/FxCop.Design.OneDimensionForIndexer.vb" id="Snippet1":::
:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Design.OneDimensionForIndexer/cs/FxCop.Design.OneDimensionForIndexer.cs" id="Snippet1":::

## Related rules
[CA1043: Use integral or string argument for indexers](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1043)

[CA1024: Use properties where appropriate](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1024)
