---
description: "An externally visible member has a signature that contains a nested type argument."
title: 'CA1006: Do not nest generic types in member signatures'
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- DoNotNestGenericTypesInMemberSignatures
- CA1006
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1006
- DoNotNestGenericTypesInMemberSignatures
ms.assetid: dfc867bc-f4af-45d7-b071-db04a248f9fc
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1006: Do not nest generic types in member signatures

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1006|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause
An externally visible member has a signature that contains a nested type argument.

## Rule description
A nested type argument is a type argument that is also a generic type. To call a member whose signature contains a nested type argument, the user must instantiate one generic type and pass this type to the constructor of a second generic type. The required procedure and syntax are complex and should be avoided.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, change the design to remove the nested type argument.

## When to suppress warnings
Do not suppress a warning from this rule. Providing generics in a syntax that is easy to understand and use reduces the time that is required to learn and increases the adoption rate of new libraries.

## Example
The following example shows a method that violates the rule and the syntax that is required to call the violating method.

:::code language="vb" source="../snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Design.NestedGenerics/vb/FxCop.Design.NestedGenerics.vb" id="Snippet1":::
:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Design.NestedGenerics/cs/FxCop.Design.NestedGenerics.cs" id="Snippet1":::

## Related rules
[CA1005: Avoid excessive parameters on generic types](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1005)

[CA1010: Collections should implement generic interface](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1010)

[CA1000: Do not declare static members on generic types](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1000)

[CA1002: Do not expose generic lists](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1002)

[CA1004: Generic methods should provide type parameter](../code-quality/ca1004.md)

[CA1003: Use generic event handler instances](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1003)

[CA1007: Use generics where appropriate](../code-quality/ca1007.md)

## See also
[Generics](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/generics/index)
