---
title: 'CA1009: Declare event handlers correctly'
description: "A delegate that handles a public or protected event does not have the correct signature, return type, or parameter names."
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA1009
- DeclareEventHandlersCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA1009
- DeclareEventHandlersCorrectly
ms.assetid: ab65c471-1449-49d2-9896-7b9af74284b4
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA1009: Declare event handlers correctly

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA1009|
|Category|Microsoft.Design|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause
A delegate that handles a public or protected event does not have the correct signature, return type, or parameter names.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description
Event handler methods take two parameters. The first is of type <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=fullName> and is named 'sender'. This is the object that raised the event. The second parameter is of type <xref:System.EventArgs?displayProperty=fullName> and is named 'e'. This is the data that is associated with the event. For example, if the event is raised whenever a file is opened, the event data typically contains the name of the file.

Event handler methods should not return a value. In the C# programming language, this is indicated by the return type `void`. An event handler can invoke multiple methods in multiple objects. If the methods were allowed to return a value, multiple return values would occur for each event, and only the value of the last method that was invoked would be available.

## How to fix violations
To fix a violation of this rule, correct the signature, return type, or parameter names of the delegate. For details, see the following example.

## When to suppress warnings
Do not suppress a warning from this rule.

## Example
The following example shows a delegate that is suited to handling events. The methods that can be invoked by this event handler comply with the signature that is specified in the Design Guidelines. `AlarmEventHandler` is the type name of the delegate. `AlarmEventArgs` derives from the base class for event data, <xref:System.EventArgs>, and holds alarm event data.

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Design.EventsTwoParams/cs/FxCop.Design.EventsTwoParams.cs" id="Snippet1":::
:::code language="vb" source="../snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Design.EventsTwoParams/vb/FxCop.Design.EventsTwoParams.vb" id="Snippet1":::

## Related rules
[CA2109: Review visible event handlers](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2109)

## See also

- <xref:System.EventArgs?displayProperty=fullName>
- <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=fullName>
- [Handling and raising events](/dotnet/standard/events/index)
