---
title: "CA1508: Avoid dead conditional code"
ms.date: 04/23/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA1508"
  - "AvoidDeadConditionalCode"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1508"
  - "AvoidDeadConditionalCode"
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA1508: Avoid dead conditional code

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|AvoidDeadConditionalCode|
|CheckId|CA1508|
|Category|Microsoft.Maintainability|
|Breaking change|Non-Breaking|

## Cause

A method has conditional code that always evaluates to `true` or `false` at runtime. This leads to dead code in the `false` branch of the condition.

## Rule description

Methods can have conditional code, such as if statements, binary expressions ('==', '!=', '<', '>'), null checks, etc. For example, consider the below code:

```csharp
public void M(int i, int j)
{
    if (i != 0)
    {
        return;
    }

    if (j != 0)
    {
        return;
    }

    // Below condition will always evaluate to 'false' as 'i' and 'j' are both '0' here.
    if (i != j)
    {
        // Code in this 'if' branch is dead code.
        // It can either be removed or refactored.
        ...
    }
}
```

C# and VB compilers perform analysis of conditional checks involving compile-time _constant values_ that always evaluate to `true` or `false`. This analyzer performs dataflow analysis of non-constant variables to determine redundant conditional checks involving _non-constant values_. In the above code, the analyzer determines that 'i' and 'j' are both '0' for all code paths that reach 'i != j' check. Hence, this check will always evaluate to `false` at runtime. The code inside the if statement is dead code and can be removed or refactored. Similarly, the analyzer tracks nullness of variables and reports redundant null checks.

> [!NOTE]
> Rule CA1508 is not available in legacy analysis. It was first introduced in [FxCop analyzers](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.FxCopAnalyzers).
> Note that this analyzer performs an expensive dataflow analysis of non-constant values. This can increase the overall compile time on certain code bases. Hence, this rule is disabled by default in the analyzer package. Users can enable this rule in editorconfig and perform a one-off analysis and code cleanup. For more information on enabling the rule in editorconfig, see [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/code-quality/use-roslyn-analyzers#rule-severity).

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a violation of this rule if you're not concerned about the maintainability of your code. It is also fine to suppress violations that are identified to be false positives. These are possible in presence of concurrent code that can execute from multiple threads.

## See also

- [Maintainability warnings](../code-quality/maintainability-warnings.md)
