---
title: "CA1507 Use nameof instead of string"
ms.date: 05/16/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "UseNameofInPlaceOfString"
  - "CA1507"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "UseNameofInPlaceOfString"
  - "CA1507"
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA1507: Use nameof in place of string

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|UseNameofInPlaceOfString|
|CheckId|CA1507|
|Category|Microsoft.Maintainability|
|Breaking Change|Non-breaking|

## Cause



## Rule description

This rule flags the use of a string literal as an argument to an invocation (i.e. method call) or object creation where a [`nameof` expression](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/nameof) (`NameOf` in Visual Basic) would add more readability and maintainability. It is fired under following conditions:

1. The argument is a string literal or constant.
2. The argument corresponds to a "string" typed parameter of the method or the constructor being invoked (i.e. there is no conversion involved at callsite).
3. The constant value of the string literal matches either of the following:

   - The name of a parameter of the containing method (or any of the containing lambda or local function) within which the method or constructor is being invoked.
   - The name of a property of the containing type within which the method or constructor is being invoked.

> [!NOTE]
> Rule CA1507 is not available in binary-based static code analysis. It was first introduced in [FxCop analyzers](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.FxCopAnalyzers).

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation, replace the string literal with a [`nameof` expression](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/nameof) (`NameOf` in Visual Basic). For example:

```csharp

```

> [!TIP]
> A code fix is available for this rule in Visual Studio.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a violation of this rule if you're not concerned about the maintainability of your code.

## See also

- [Maintainability warnings](../code-quality/maintainability-warnings.md)