---
title: "CA1716: Identifiers should not match keywords"
ms.date: 03/11/2019
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "IdentifiersShouldNotMatchKeywords"
  - "CA1716"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "IdentifiersShouldNotMatchKeywords"
  - "CA1716"
ms.assetid: 900cc8a1-1089-4069-a4ce-10b109ac4fab
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA1716: Identifiers should not match keywords

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|IdentifiersShouldNotMatchKeywords|
|CheckId|CA1716|
|Category|Microsoft.Naming|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

## Cause

The name of a namespace, type, or virtual or interface member matches a reserved keyword in a programming language.

By default, this rule only looks at externally visible namespaces, types, and members, but this is [configurable](#configurability).

## Rule description

Identifiers for namespaces, types, and virtual and interface members should not match keywords that are defined by languages that target the common language runtime. Depending on the language that is used and the keyword, compiler errors and ambiguities can make the library difficult to use.

This rule checks against keywords in the following languages:

- Visual Basic
- C#
- C++/CLI

Case-insensitive comparison is used for Visual Basic keywords, and case-sensitive comparison is used for the other languages.

## How to fix violations

Select a name that does not appear in the list of keywords.

## When to suppress warnings

You can suppress a warning from this rule if you're convinced that the identifier won't confuse users of the API, and that the library is usable in all available languages in .NET.

## Configurability

If you're running this rule from [FxCop analyzers](install-fxcop-analyzers.md) (and not with legacy analysis), you can configure which parts of your codebase to run this rule on, based on their accessibility. For example, to specify that the rule should run only against the non-public API surface, add the following key-value pair to an .editorconfig file in your project:

```ini
dotnet_code_quality.ca1716.api_surface = private, internal
```

You can configure this option for just this rule, for all rules, or for all rules in this category (Naming). For more information, see [Configure FxCop analyzers](configure-fxcop-analyzers.md).
