---
title: "CA1806: Do not ignore method results"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA1806"
  - "DoNotIgnoreMethodResults"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA1806"
  - "DoNotIgnoreMethodResults"
ms.assetid: fd805687-0817-481e-804e-b62cfb3b1076
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
dev_langs:
 - CPP
 - CSharp
 - VB
manager: jillfra
---
# CA1806: Do not ignore method results

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|DoNotIgnoreMethodResults|
|CheckId|CA1806|
|Category|Microsoft.Usage|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

## Cause

There are several possible reasons for this warning:

- A new object is created but never used.

- A method that creates and returns a new string is called and the new string is never used.

- A COM or P/Invoke method that returns a HRESULT or error code that is never used. Rule Description

Unnecessary object creation and the associated garbage collection of the unused object degrade performance.

Strings are immutable and methods such as String.ToUpper returns a new instance of a string instead of modifying the instance of the string in the calling method.

Ignoring HRESULT or error code can lead to unexpected behavior in error conditions or to low-resource conditions.

## How to fix violations
If method A creates a new instance of B object that is never used, pass the instance as an argument to another method or assign the instance to a variable. If the object creation is unnecessary, remove the it.-or-

If method A calls method B, but does not use the new string instance that the method B returns. Pass the instance as an argument to another method, assign the instance to a variable. Or remove the call if it is unnecessary.

 -or-

If method A calls method B, but does not use the HRESULT or error code that the method returns. Use the result in a conditional statement, assign the result to a variable, or pass it as an argument to another method.

## When to suppress warnings
Do not suppress a warning from this rule unless the act of creating the object serves some purpose.

## Example
The following example shows a class that ignores the result of calling String.Trim.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults3#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults3#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.vb)]
[!code-cpp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults3#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CPP/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_1.cpp)]

## Example
The following example fixes the previous violation by assigning the result of String.Trim back to the variable it was called on.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults4#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_2.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults4#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_2.vb)]
[!code-cpp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults4#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CPP/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_2.cpp)]

## Example
The following example shows a method that does not use an object that it creates.

> [!NOTE]
> This violation cannot be reproduced in Visual Basic.

[!code-cpp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults5#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CPP/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_3.cpp)]
[!code-csharp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults5#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_3.cs)]

## Example
The following example fixes the previous violation by removing the unnecessary creation of an object.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults6#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_4.cs)]
[!code-cpp[FxCop.Usage.DoNotIgnoreMethodResults6#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CPP/ca1806-do-not-ignore-method-results_4.cpp)]

<!-- Examples don't exist for the below... -->
<!--
## Example
The following example shows a method that ignores the error code that the native method GetShortPathName returns.

## Example
The following example fixes the previous violation by checking the error code and throwing an exception when the call fails.
-->
