---
title: 'CA2104: Do not declare read-only mutable reference types'
description: "An externally visible type contains an externally visible read-only field that is a mutable reference type."
ms.date: 11/01/2018
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- DoNotDeclareReadOnlyMutableReferenceTypes
- CA2104
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2104
- DoNotDeclareReadOnlyMutableReferenceTypes
ms.assetid: 81b83ee5-4db5-4be0-9f8d-90b53894ec3b
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
ms.workload:
- multiple
---
# CA2104: Do not declare read only mutable reference types

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2104|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

> [!NOTE]
> Rule CA2104 is obsolete and will be removed in a future version of Visual Studio. It will not be implemented as an [analyzer](roslyn-analyzers-overview.md) due to the complicated analysis that's required to determine the actual immutability of a type.

## Cause
An externally visible type contains an externally visible read-only field that is a mutable reference type.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description

A mutable type is a type whose instance data can be modified. The <xref:System.Text.StringBuilder?displayProperty=fullName> class is an example of a mutable reference type. It contains members that can change the value of an instance of the class. An example of an immutable reference type is the <xref:System.String?displayProperty=fullName> class. After it has been instantiated, its value can never change.

The read-only modifier ([readonly](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/readonly) in C#, [ReadOnly](/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/modifiers/readonly) in Visual Basic, and [const](/cpp/cpp/const-cpp) in C++) on a reference type field (or pointer in C++) prevents the field from being replaced by a different instance of the reference type. However, the modifier does not prevent the instance data of the field from being modified through the reference type.

This rule may inadvertently show a violation for a type that is, in fact, immutable. In that case, it's safe to suppress the warning.

Read-only array fields are exempt from this rule but instead cause a violation of the [CA2105: Array fields should not be read only](../code-quality/ca2105.md) rule.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, remove the read-only modifier or, if a breaking change is acceptable, replace the field with an immutable type.

## When to suppress warnings

It's safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the field type is immutable.

## Example

The following example shows a field declaration that causes a violation of this rule:

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Security.MutableReferenceTypes/cs/FxCop.Security.MutableReferenceTypes.cs" id="Snippet1":::
:::code language="vb" source="../snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Security.MutableReferenceTypes/vb/FxCop.Security.MutableReferenceTypes.vb" id="Snippet1":::
