---
title: "CA2132: Default constructors must be at least as critical as base type default constructors"
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "CA2132"
ms.assetid: e758afa1-8bde-442a-8a0a-bd1ea7b0ce4d
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA2132: Default constructors must be at least as critical as base type default constructors

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|DefaultConstructorsMustHaveConsistentTransparency|
|CheckId|CA2132|
|Category|Microsoft.Security|
|Breaking change|Breaking|

> [!NOTE]
> This warning is only applied to code that is running the CoreCLR (the version of the CLR that is specific to Silverlight web applications).

## Cause
The transparency attribute of the default constructor of a derived class is not as critical as the transparency of the base class.

> [!NOTE]
> This legacy rule is not available in FxCop Analyzers. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-rule-port-status.md#deprecated-rules).

## Rule description

Types and members that have the <xref:System.Security.SecurityCriticalAttribute> cannot be used by Silverlight application code. Security-critical types and members can be used only by trusted code in the .NET Framework for Silverlight class library. Because a public or protected construction in a derived class must have the same or greater transparency than its base class, a class in an application cannot be derived from a class marked SecurityCritical.

For CoreCLR platform code, if a base type has a public or protected non-transparent default constructor then the derived type must obey the default constructor inheritance rules. The derived type must also have a default constructor and that constructor must be at least as critical default constructor of the base type.

## How to fix violations

To fix the violation, remove the type or do not derive from security non-transparent type.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress warnings from this rule. Violations of this rule by application code will result in the CoreCLR refusing to load the type with a <xref:System.TypeLoadException>.

### Code

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Security.CA2132.DefaultConstructorsMustHaveConsistentTransparency#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2132-default-constructors-must-be-at-least-as-critical-as-base-type-default-constructors_1.cs)]
