---
title: 'CA2233: Operations should not overflow'
description: A method performs an arithmetic operation and does not validate the operands beforehand to prevent overflow.
ms.date: 11/04/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- OperationsShouldNotOverflow
- CA2233
helpviewer_keywords:
- OperationsShouldNotOverflow
- CA2233
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: code-analysis
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
monikerRange: 'vs-2019'
---

# CA2233: Operations should not overflow

|Item|Value|
|-|-|
|RuleId|CA2233|
|Category|Microsoft.Usage|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

## Cause

A method performs an arithmetic operation and does not validate the operands beforehand to prevent overflow.

> [!NOTE]
> This rule has been deprecated. For more information, see [Deprecated rules](fxcop-unported-deprecated-rules.md).

## Rule description

Don't perform arithmetic operations without first validating the operands to make sure that the result of the operation is not outside the range of possible values for the data types involved. Depending on the execution context and the data types involved, arithmetic overflow can result in either a <xref:System.OverflowException?displayProperty=fullName> or the most significant bits of the result discarded.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, validate the operands before you perform the operation.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress a warning from this rule if the possible values of the operands will never cause the arithmetic operation to overflow.

## Example of a violation

A method in the following example manipulates an integer that violates this rule. Visual Basic requires the **Remove** integer overflow option to be disabled for this to fire.

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflow/cs/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflow.cs" id="Snippet1":::

### [VB](#tab/vb)

:::code language="vb" source="../snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflow/vb/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflow.vb" id="Snippet1":::
---

If the method in this example is passed <xref:System.Int32.MinValue?displayProperty=fullName>, the operation would underflow. This causes the most significant bit of the result to be discarded. The following code shows how this occurs.

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

```csharp
public static void Main()
{
    int value = int.MinValue;    // int.MinValue is -2147483648
    value = Calculator.Decrement(value);
    Console.WriteLine(value);
}
```

### [VB](#tab/vb)

```vb
Public Shared Sub Main()
    Dim value = Integer.MinValue    ' Integer.MinValue is -2147483648
    value = Calculator.Decrement(value)
    Console.WriteLine(value)
End Sub
```

---

Output:

```text
2147483647
```

## Fix with Input Parameter Validation

The following example fixes the previous violation by validating the value of input.

### [C#](#tab/csharp)

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflowFixed/cs/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflowFixed.cs" id="Snippet1":::

### [VB](#tab/vb)

:::code language="vb" source="../snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflowFixed/vb/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflowFixed.vb" id="Snippet1":::
---

## Fix with a Checked Block

The following example fixes the previous violation by wrapping the operation in a checked block. If the operation causes an overflow, a <xref:System.OverflowException?displayProperty=fullName> will be thrown.

Checked blocks are not supported in Visual Basic.

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_CodeAnalysis/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflowChecked/cs/FxCop.Usage.OperationOverflowChecked.cs" id="Snippet1":::

## Turn on Checked Arithmetic Overflow/Underflow

If you turn on checked arithmetic overflow/underflow in C#, it is equivalent to wrapping every integer operation in a checked block.

To turn on checked arithmetic overflow/underflow in C#:

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click your project and choose **Properties**.

2. Select the **Build** tab and click **Advanced**.

3. Select **Check for arithmetic overflow/underflow** and click **OK**.

## See also

- <xref:System.OverflowException?displayProperty=fullName>
- [C# Operators](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/operators/index)
- [Checked and Unchecked](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/checked-and-unchecked)
