---
title: "CA2214: Do not call overridable methods in constructors"
ms.date: 05/29/2016
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "DoNotCallOverridableMethodsInConstructors"
  - "CA2214"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "CA2214"
  - "DoNotCallOverridableMethodsInConstructors"
ms.assetid: 335b57ca-a6e8-41b4-a20e-57ee172c97c3
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: jillfra
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
ms.workload:
  - "multiple"
---
# CA2214: Do not call overridable methods in constructors

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|DoNotCallOverridableMethodsInConstructors|
|CheckId|CA2214|
|Category|Microsoft.Usage|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

## Cause

The constructor of an unsealed type calls a virtual method defined in its class.

## Rule description

When a virtual method is called, the actual type that executes the method is not selected until run time. When a constructor calls a virtual method, it's possible that the constructor for the instance that invokes the method has not executed. This could lead to errors or unexpected behavior, if an overridden virtual method relies on initialization and other configuration in the constructor.

> [!NOTE]
> The legacy analysis implementation of this rule has a different diagnostic message of "**\[Constructor name] contains a call chain that results in a call to a virtual method defined by the class. Review the following call stack for unintended consequences**". The [FxCop analyzers](install-fxcop-analyzers.md) implementation of this rule has a diagnostic message of "**Do not call overridable methods in constructors**".

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, do not call a type's virtual methods from within the type's constructors.

## When to suppress warnings

Do not suppress a warning from this rule. The constructor should be redesigned to eliminate the call to the virtual method.

## Example

The following example demonstrates the effect of violating this rule. The test application creates an instance of `DerivedType`, which causes its base class (`BadlyConstructedType`) constructor to execute. `BadlyConstructedType`'s constructor incorrectly calls the virtual method `DoSomething`. As the output shows, `DerivedType.DoSomething()` executes before `DerivedType`'s constructor executes.

[!code-csharp[FxCop.Usage.CtorVirtual#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/CSharp/ca2214-do-not-call-overridable-methods-in-constructors_1.cs)]
[!code-vb[FxCop.Usage.CtorVirtual#1](../code-quality/codesnippet/VisualBasic/ca2214-do-not-call-overridable-methods-in-constructors_1.vb)]

This example produces the following output:

```txt
Calling base ctor.
Derived DoSomething is called - initialized ? No
Calling derived ctor.
```
