---
title: 'CA2245: Do not assign a property to itself'
ms.date: 04/29/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2245
- AvoidPropertySelfAssignment
helpviewer_keywords:
- CA2245
author: mavasani
ms.author: mavasani
manager: jillfra
---
# CA2245: Do not assign a property to itself.

|||
|-|-|
|TypeName|AvoidPropertySelfAssignment|
|CheckId|CA2245|
|Category|Microsoft.Usage|
|Breaking change|Non-breaking|

## Cause

A property was accidentally assigned to itself.

## Rule description

C# compiler generates a warning [CS1717: Assignment made to same variable; did you mean to assign something else?](/dotnet/csharp/misc/cs1717) when a field, local or parameter symbol is assigned to itself. Such a mistake is common when a local, parameter or field symbol has a name similar to another symbol in scope. Instead of using different symbols on the left-hand and right-hand side of the assignment, same symbol was used on both sides. This leads to a redundant assignment of the value to itself and generally indicates a functional bug.

Assigning a property to itself is also a similar functional bug for almost all real world cases. However, in some extreme corner cases, fetching a property value can have side effects and property's new value is different from the original value. If so, property self-assignment is not redundant and cannot be removed. This prevents the compiler from generating a `CS1717` warning for property self-assignment, without introducing a breaking change for these cases.

Rule `CA2245` aims at filling this gap. It reports the violation for property self-assignment to help fix these functional bugs. For the small set of corner cases where property self-assignment is desirable, `CA2245` violations can be suppressed in source with appropriate justification comment.

> [!NOTE]
> Rule CA2245 is not available in legacy analysis. It was first introduced in [FxCop analyzers](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.FxCopAnalyzers) version 2.9.8.

## How to fix violations

To fix violations, use different symbols on left-hand and right-hand side of the assignment. For example, the following code snippet shows a violation of the rule and how to fix it:

```csharp
public class C
{
    private int p = 0;
    public int P { get; private set; }

    public void M(int p)
    {
        // CS1717: Accidentally assigned the parameter 'p' to itself.
        p = p;

        // CA2245: Accidentally assigned the property 'P' to itself.
        P = P;
    }
}
```

```csharp
public class C
{
    private int p = 0;
    public int P { get; private set; }

    public void M(int p)
    {
        // No violation, now the parameter is assigned to the field.
        this.p = p;

        // No violation, now the parameter is assigned to the property.
        P = p;
    }
}
```

## When to suppress warnings

It is fine to suppress violations from this rule if fetching a property value can have side effects and property's new value is different from the original value. If so, property self-assignment is not redundant. A justification comment should be added to the suppression to document this as expected behavior.

## Related rules

- [CS1717: Assignment made to same variable; did you mean to assign something else?](/dotnet/csharp/misc/cs1717)
- [CA2011: Do not assign property within its setter](ca2011.md)

## See also

- [Usage warnings](usage-warnings.md)
