---
title: Suppress Code Analysis violations for Generated Code
ms.date: 05/13/2019
description: Learn how to suppress code analysis warnings for generated code. See how to prevent Visual Studio from displaying legacy analysis warnings about generated code.
ms.custom: SEO-VS-2020
ms.topic: how-to
ms.assetid: 3a96434e-d419-43a7-81ba-95cccac835b8
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
manager: jmartens
ms.technology: vs-ide-code-analysis
ms.workload: 
  - multiple
---
# How to: Suppress code analysis warnings for generated code

Generated code includes code that's added to your project by managed code compilers or third-party tools. You might want to see the rule violations that code analysis discovers in generated code. However, since you can't view and maintain the code that contains the violations, you might not want to see them.

The **Suppress results from generated code** check box on the code analysis property page of a project enables you to select whether to show code analysis warnings from code generated by a third-party tool.

> [!NOTE]
> This option does not suppress code analysis errors and warnings from generated code when the errors and warnings appear in forms and templates. You can both view and maintain the source code for a form or a template.

### To suppress warnings for generated code in a project

1. Right-click the project in **Solution Explorer** and then click **Properties**.

2. Choose the **Code Analysis** tab.

3. Select the **Suppress results from generated code** check box.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You can only suppress warnings from legacy analysis. The property page with the setting has been deprecated and will be removed in a future product release. Currently, you cannot suppress code analysis warnings from [analyzers](roslyn-analyzers-overview.md).
