---
title: Configure Code Analysis
ms.date: 04/04/2018
ms.topic: conceptual
f1_keywords:
  - "vs.codeanalysis.propertypages.csvb"
  - "vs.codeanalysis.propertypages.solution"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "code analysis, selecting rule sets"
  - "code analysis, rule sets"
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
manager: jillfra
ms.workload:
  - "dotnet"
---
# How to: Configure Code Analysis for a Managed Code Project

In Visual Studio, you can choose from a list of code analysis [rule sets](../code-quality/rule-set-reference.md)) to apply to a managed code project. By default, the **Microsoft Minimum Recommended Rules** rule set is selected, but you can apply a different rule set if desired. Rule sets can be applied to one or multiple projects in a solution.

> [!TIP]
> For information about how to configure a rule set for ASP.NET web applications, see [How to: Configure Code Analysis for an ASP.NET web Application](../code-quality/how-to-configure-code-analysis-for-an-aspnet-web-application.md).

## To configure a rule set for a .NET Framework project

1. Open the **Code Analysis** tab on the project's property pages. You can do this in either of the following ways:

   - In **Solution Explorer**, select the project. On the menu bar, select **Analyze** > **Configure Code Analysis** > **For \<projectname>**.

   - Right-click the project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Properties**, and then select the **Code Analysis** tab.

1. In the **Configuration** and **Platform** lists, select the build configuration and target platform.

1. To run code analysis every time the project is built using the selected configuration, select the **Enable Code Analysis on Build** check box. You can also run code analysis manually by selecting **Analyze** > **Run Code Analysis** > **Run Code Analysis on \<projectname>**.

1. By default, code analysis does not report warnings from code that is automatically generated by external tools. To view warnings from generated code, clear the **Suppress results from generated code** check box.

    > [!NOTE]
    > This option does not suppress code analysis errors and warnings from generated code when the errors and warnings appear in forms and templates. You can both view and maintain the source code for a form or a template, without having it overwritten.

1. In the **Run this rule set** list, do one of the following:

    - Select the rule set that you want to use.

    - Select **\<Browse...>** to find an existing custom rule set that is not in the list.

    - Define a [custom rule set](../code-quality/how-to-create-a-custom-rule-set.md).

## Specify rule sets for multiple projects in a solution

By default, all the managed projects of a solution are assigned the *Microsoft Minimum Recommended Rules* code analysis rule set. You can change the rule sets that are assigned to the projects of a solution in the **Properties** dialog box for the solution.

1. Open the solution in Visual Studio.

2. On the **Analyze** menu, select **Configure Code Analysis for Solution**.

3. If necessary, expand **Common Properties**, and then select **Code Analysis Settings**.

4. You can specify a rule set for one or more projects:

    - To specify a rule set for an individual project, select the project name.

    - To specify a rule set for multiple projects, hold down **Ctrl** and select the project names.

    - To specify all the projects in the solution, hold down **Shift** and click in the project list.

5. Select the **Rule Set** field of a project, and then select the name of the rule set that you want to apply.

## See also

- [Code analysis rule set reference](../code-quality/rule-set-reference.md)
- [How to: Configure Code Analysis for an ASP.NET web Application](../code-quality/how-to-configure-code-analysis-for-an-aspnet-web-application.md)