---
title: "Code Metrics Results in Visual Studio | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "12/12/2017"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "vs-ide-code-analysis"
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
f1_keywords: 
  - "vs.codemetrics.output"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "code metrics results"
  - "code metrics results window"
  - "results window, code metrics"
author: "gewarren"
ms.author: "gewarren"
manager: ghogen
ms.workload: 
  - "multiple"
---
# Working with code metrics data

The **Code Metrics Results** window displays the data that is generated by the code metrics analysis. For more information about code metrics data values, see [Code Metrics Values](../code-quality/code-metrics-values.md).

## Displaying code metrics results

The **Code Metrics Results** window is displayed automatically when you generate code metrics results. You can also display the window at any time.

### To display the Code Metrics Results window

- On the **Analyze** menu, choose **Windows** > **Code Metrics Results**.

   \- or -

- On the **View** menu, choose **Other Windows** > **Code Metrics Results**.

   The **Code Metrics Results** window is displayed, even if it contains no results.

### To view code metrics details

If code metrics results have been generated, expand the tree in the **Hierarchy** column.

## Filtering code metrics results

You can filter the results that are displayed in the **Code Metrics Results** window by using the toolbar at the top. For example, you might want to see only the results that have a maintainability index below 65.

The **Filter** drop-down box contains the names of the results columns. When a filter is defined, it is added to the bottom of the list together with an indentation. The list can contain the last ten filters that were defined.

### To filter the code metrics results

1.  From the **Filter** list, select the column name.

2.  In **Min**, type the minimum value to be displayed.

3.  In **Max**, type the maximum value to be displayed.

4.  Click the **Apply Filter** button.

5.  To see the result details, expand the hierarchy tree.

## Adding, removing, and rearranging data columns

You can add or remove results columns from the **Code Metrics Results** window . In addition, you can rearrange results columns so that they appear in the order that you want.

### To remove a column

1. Click the **Add/Remove Columns** button.

     \- or -
     Right-click any column heading and then click **Add/Remove Columns**.

1. In the **Add/Remove Columns** dialog box, clear the check box for the column that you want to remove and then click **OK**.

### To add a previously removed column

1. Click the **Add/Remove Columns** button.

     \- or -

     Right-click any column heading and then click **Add/Remove Columns**.

1. In the **Add/Remove Columns** dialog box, select the check box for the column that you want to add and then click **OK**.

### To rearrange columns

1. Click the **Add/Remove Columns** button.

     \- or -

     Right-click any column heading and then click **Add/Remove Columns**.

1. In the **Add/Remove Columns** dialog box, select the column that you want to move and then click either the up arrow or the down arrow.

1. When the column is positioned where you want it, click **OK**.

## Copying data to the clipboard or Excel

You can select and copy a selected row of code metrics data to the clipboard as a text string that contains one line for the name and value of each data column. You can also click **Open Selection in Microsoft Excel** to export all of the code metrics results to an Excel spreadsheet.

## Creating a work item based on code metric results

You can create a [Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS)](/vsts/index) work item that is based on results in the **Code Metric Results** window. When the work item is created, Visual Studio automatically enters a title in the **Title** field and code metrics data under the **History** tab.

For more information about VSTS work items, see [Work items (VSTS)](/vsts/work/work-items/index).

### To create a work item based on a result

1.  Right-click the result.

2.  Point to **Create Work Item**, and then click the type of work item you want to create (**Bug**, **Task**, and so forth).

3.  Complete the work item form by filling in all required fields.

4.  On the **File** menu, click **Save All** to save the work item.

### To create a bug based on a result

1.  Click the result to select it.

2.  Click the **Create Work Item** button.

3.  Complete the work item form by filling in all required fields.

4.  On the **File** menu, click **Save All** to save the work item.

## See also

[Code Metrics values](../code-quality/code-metrics-values.md)  
[How to: Generate Code Metrics Data](../code-quality/how-to-generate-code-metrics-data.md)