subscriptions/faq/admin/managing/index.md, before:

---
title: Managing Visual Studio subscriptions
description: FAQs list for Managing Visual Studio Subscriptions.
ms.faqid: Section1
ms.topic: conceptual
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
ms.date: 09/24/2024
---

# Managing Visual Studio subscriptions

[!INCLUDE [I'm a new administrator. Where is everything I need to know?](includes/new-admin.md)]

[!INCLUDE [How do I manage administrators?](includes/manage-admins.md)]

[!INCLUDE [How do I assign Visual Studio subscriptions?](includes/assign-subscriptions.md)]

[!INCLUDE [What is the difference between a Sign-in email address and a Notification email address?](includes/email-types.md)]

[!INCLUDE [I have a new agreement. How do I move my subscribers?](includes/new-agreement.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Why is the portal not showing the correct number of subscriptions for my agreement?](includes/incorrect-subscription-quantity.md)]

[!INCLUDE [How can I select an end date for a subscription?](includes/select-end-date.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Why does my SLP agreement have an end date, and why is it sometimes different for my subscribers?](includes/slp-end-dates.md)]

[!INCLUDE [What is the process for assigning GitHub Enterprise subscriptions?](includes/github-assign-process.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Why am I not seeing an agreement while logged into the portal?](includes/no-agreement.md)]

Commit message:

Default overallocation cap (#13920)
Created a new FAQ in the Manage portal showing how to get assistance in removing the default overallocation cap. Updated the index as well.

subscriptions/faq/admin/managing/index.md, after:

---
title: Managing Visual Studio subscriptions
description: FAQs list for Managing Visual Studio Subscriptions.
ms.faqid: Section1
ms.topic: conceptual
author: joseb-rdc
ms.author: amast
ms.date: 05/12/2025
---

# Managing Visual Studio subscriptions

[!INCLUDE [I'm a new administrator. Where is everything I need to know?](includes/new-admin.md)]

[!INCLUDE [How do I manage administrators?](includes/manage-admins.md)]

[!INCLUDE [How do I assign Visual Studio subscriptions?](includes/assign-subscriptions.md)]

[!INCLUDE [What is the difference between a Sign-in email address and a Notification email address?](includes/email-types.md)]

[!INCLUDE [I have a new agreement. How do I move my subscribers?](includes/new-agreement.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Why is the portal not showing the correct number of subscriptions for my agreement?](includes/incorrect-subscription-quantity.md)]

[!INCLUDE [What does it mean when the portal says I have "reached the default overallocation cap?"](includes/overallocation.md)]

[!INCLUDE [How can I select an end date for a subscription?](includes/select-end-date.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Why does my SLP agreement have an end date, and why is it sometimes different for my subscribers?](includes/slp-end-dates.md)]

[!INCLUDE [What is the process for assigning GitHub Enterprise subscriptions?](includes/github-assign-process.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Why am I not seeing an agreement while logged into the portal?](includes/no-agreement.md)]
