---
title: "How to: Change the Build Output Directory | Microsoft Docs"
ms.date: 11/15/2016
ms.prod: "visual-studio-dev14"
ms.technology: "vs-ide-general"
ms.topic: conceptual
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "output directory, changing"
ms.assetid: a8333c89-afb2-4b1d-b2e2-9146da852402
caps.latest.revision: 16
author: jillre
ms.author: jillfra
manager: jillfra
---
# How to: Change the Build Output Directory
[!INCLUDE[vs2017banner](../includes/vs2017banner.md)]

You can specify the location of output on a per-configuration basis (for debug, release, or both) generated by your project.

> [!NOTE]
> If you have a **Setup** project see the note at the end of this article.

## Changing the Build Output directory

#### To change the build output directory

1. On the menu bar, choose **Project**, *Appname* **Properties**. You can also right-click the project node in the **Solution Explorer** and select **Properties**.

2. If you have a Visual Basic project, select the **Compile** tab. If you have a Visual C# project, select the **Build** tab. If you have a C++ project or a JavaScript project, select the **General** tab.

3. In the configuration drop-down at the top, choose the configuration whose output file location you want to change (debug, release, or all).

     Find the output path entry (**Build output path** in Visual Basic, **Output Directory** in Visual C++, **Output Path** in JavaScript and C#). Specify a new build output directory relative to the project directory.

> [!NOTE]
> In a Setup Project, the **Output file name** box changes only the location of the Setup.exe file, not the location of the project files. For more information, see **Build, Configuration Properties, Deployment Project Properties Dialog Box**.

## See Also
 [Build Page, Project Designer (C#)](../ide/reference/build-page-project-designer-csharp.md)
 [General Property Page (Project)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/593b383c-cd0f-4dcd-ad65-9ec9b4b19c45)
 [Compiling and Building](../ide/compiling-and-building-in-visual-studio.md)
